# Earfittings for earrings.

## Abstract
The invention provides an earfitting for an earring to be worn on pierced ears, comprising an earring post 1 which in use is positioned in the pierced hole in the ear lobe, and a spearhead 2 hingedly mounted on the end of the earring post to be positioned behind the ear lobe, such that the earring post and spearhead can be mutually aligned to enable the earfitting to be passed through the ear lobe, whereafter the spearhead can be turned with respect to the earring post to secure the earfitting in place. Preferably means 8,9 are provided for temporarily locking the earring post and spearhead in mutual alignment.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An earfitting for an earring to be worn on pierced ears, comprising dn earring post 1 which in use is positioned in the pierced hole in the ear lobe, characterised in that a spearhead 2 is hinged mounted on the end of the earring post to be positioned behind the ear lobe, such that the earring post and spearhead can be mutually aligned to enable the earfitting to be passed through the ear lobe, whereafter the spearhead can be turned with respect to the earring post. to secure the earfitting in place. 2. An earfitting as claimed in claim 1, including means for temporarily locking the earring post and spearhead in mutual alignment. 3. An earfitting as claimed in claim 2, wherein said temporary locking means includes means for a snap fit engagement between a portion of the earring post and a portion of the.spearhead. 4. An earfit,ting as claimed in claim 3, wherein said temporary locking means comprise a protrusion 8 on the earring post or spearhead and a depression 9 respectively on the spearhead or earring post, said protrusion and depression being adapted to cooFie .rate in a snap fit mechanism. 5. An earfitting as claimed in claim 3, wherein said temporary locking means comprise cooperating edges 36,37 respectively on the earring post and on the spearhead which are adapted to engage each other in a snap fit mechanism when the earring post and spearhead are mutually aligned.

## Description
EARFITTINGS FOR EARRINGS This invention relates to improvements in earfittings for earrings to be worn on pierced ears. A traditiona.l type of earfitting used with earrings to be worn in pierced ears is known as a French fitting. This comprises a straight cylindrical bar also referred to as an earring post which passes through the pierced hole in the ear and is secured in place by a spring loaded scroll also referred to as a butterfly clip behind the ear lobe. Alternatively, the bar may be threaded and secured in place by a correspondingly threaded wing nut behind the ear lobe. This fitting suffers from a number of disadvantages. It is difficult to secure the scroll or wing nut in place by sense of feel. The scrolls or wing nuts, being detachable and quite small, are easily lost. The wing nuts or scrolls, when made in precious metal, constitute a relatively high proportion of the total cost of the fitting.This not only affects the initial cost of the article, but must be considered when replacing lost scrolls or wing nuts. GB 2074841 A discloses a threaded French fitting including a wing nut having a guide ring in register with the internally threaded portion. Tne provision of the guide ring facilities assembly.However, in view of its significant weight and design, the wing nut still constitutes a hipll proportion of the total cost. Another type of earfitting is the so called safety wire. This comprises a h k .ii1p d wire which is passed through the ear lobe. A retaining member attached to the body of the earring is then engaged with the free end of the hook wire. The retaining member may be hinged to the body of the earring.In comparison with the French fitting, the hook wire is relatively difficult to insert through the ear lobe. It may also be uncomfortable to wear, as the ear lobes of people vary considerably in shape and thickness. An object of the invention is to provide an improved earfitting which does not suffer from the above disadvantages. The invention provides an earfitting for an earring to be worn on pierced ears, comprising an earring post which in use is positioned in the pierced hole in the ear lobe, characterised in that a spearhead is hingedly mounted on the end of the earring post to be positioned behind the ear lobe, such that the earring post and spearhead can be mutually aligned to enable the earfitting to be passed through the ear lobe, whereafter the spearhead can be turned with respect to the earring post to secure the earfitting in place. Preferably means are provided for temporarily locking the earring post and spearhead in mutual alignment. This makes it easier to pass the earfitting through the ear lobe. Once in position, the spearhead is unlocked and turned with respect to the earring post, so that the earfitting is secured in place in the ear. More preferably, the temporary locking involves a snap fit mechanism, so that the user can sense by feel when the earring post and spearhead are aligned. This makes it easier to align the two members when in position in the ear and then withdraw the ear fitting. In comparison with the prior art, the present invention provides the following advantages.When the earring post and spearhead are aligned1 they can be passed through the pierced ear lobe as easily as a conventional French fitting. Once in position, turning of the spearhead to secure the earfitting in place is a simple matter and does not involve the manipulation purely by feel of two separate components behind the ear lobe. The final angle adopted by the spearhead relative to the earring post is variable, thereby providing comfortable wearing properties for ear lobes of varying shape and thickness, and provided the spearhead and earring post are not in the mutually aligned position the earfitting is held securely in the ear. As the scroll or wing nut of the conventional French fitting is dispensed with, there is no risk of loss of such components, and the weight of the fitting is reduced.The latter factor results in considerable saving of dost when the fitting is made from precious metal, such as gold. Reference is now made to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a side elevation of an earfitting according to an embodiment of the invention Figure 2 is an end elevation of the embodiment shown in Figure 1 Figures 3A and 3B show the separated components of another embodiment of the invention Figure L is a view of the assembled components of Figures 3A and 3B Figure 5 is a partial view of the fitting of Figures 3A, 3B and 4 as it would appear wh,en in position in the ear lobe Figures 6 and 7 are respectively top and side views of the separated components in a further embodiment of the invention Figures 8 and 9 are respectively side and top views of the assembled components corresponding to Figures 6 and 7 and Figure 10 is a top view and Figure 11 a side view of the assembled components in an additional preferred embodiment of the invention. Referring now to Figures 1 and 2, an earring post 1 and spearhead 2 are substantially cylindrical metal components, normally of precious metal such as gold or silver. One end 1A of the earring post is designed to be attached to a stud style earring or a fitment for a dropper style earring. One end 2A of the spearhead is rounded and tapered for easy insertion through the pierced hole in the ear lobe. As shown in Figure 2, which is a view in the direction of the arrow in Figure 1, the end of the earring post adjacent the spearhead is formed into a flat rectangular section 3, and the correspond ing end of the spearhead is formed into a slot 4 which accommodates the reactangular section 3.A pin 5 passes through the sides of the spearhead defining the slot, and through the rectangular section 3, enabling the spearhead to hinge or turn with respect to the earring post. The boundary between the cylindrical portion and the rectangular section of the earring post is in the form of an angled shoulder 6, and the ends 7 of the sides of the spearhead defining the slot are formed at a correspsnding angle. Thus , when the earring post and spearhead are mutually aligned, the shoulders 6 and ends 7 abut each other. The end face of the rectangular section 3 is provided with a protrusion 8 which. cooperates with a corresponding depression 9 in the inner face of the slot 4. ,The materials used for the earring post and spearhead are sufficiently hard but still sufficiently resilient for the components 8 and 9 to cooperate by a snap fit mechanism. A suitable material is, for example, a spring hard 9 ct gold alloy. In use, the earring post and spearhead,are mutually aligned until the components 8 and 9 make a snap fit. The spearhead and then the earring post, in that order and in alignment, are passed through the pierced hole in the ear. Once in position, the snap fit is released by manual pressure and the spearhead is turned or allowed to drop with respect to the earring post until it is approximately perpendicular thereto, and hangs on he inner side of the ear lobe.The angle between the earring post and the spearhead then prevents accidentai withdrawal of the ear fitting. In order to effect deliberate withdrawal, the earring post and spearhead are once more mutually aligned, to make a snap fit, and the earfitting dan then be withdrawn. It will be noted that the two components of the eafitting described above are permanently attached to each other, thereby avo iding accidental loss of one component s in the prior art. Similarly, the difficulty of attaching one separate component to another after insertion in the ear lobe is avoided. An alternative embodiment of the invention is shown in Figures 3 to 5. The earfitting comprises two components, an earring post 11 Figtlre 3A and a spearhead 12 Figure 3B . These components are made separately from flat sheet metal, generally precious metal such as gold or silver. The earring post and spearhead are hinged relative to each other as described in more detail below. One end 11A of the earring post is fixed to a stud style earrin or to means for attaching a dropper style earring. One end 12A of the spearhead is tapered and rounded to facilitate insertion through the pierced hole of the ear lobe. The other ends of the earring post and spearhead respectively have holes 13 and 14. The portion between the hole and the adjacent end of one component in engaged in the hole of the other component, and vice versa, enabling the components to hinge relative to each other.This is achieved, for example, by manufacturing the earring post in two parts, divided by a longitudinal axis of symmetry shown by the broken line 15. The portion between the hole and the adjacent end of, the spearhead can then be engaged in the hole of the earring post, and the two separate parts of the earring post then joined together by soldering. Of course, the same result could be achieved by manufacturing the spear head in two parts. The hinge mechanism just described enables the earring post and the spearhead to be held in mutual alignment for passing through the ear lobe, and permits the spearhead thereafter to hinge downwardly to secure the earfitting in place. As.shown in Figure 3A, the hole 13 of, the earring post is approximately key hole shaped, and includes a slot 16 extending away from the end adjacent the hole. That end incorporates an opening 17, the width of which is approximately equal to the thickness of the spearhead 12. Thc hole 14 of the spearhead is correspondingly key hole shaped and includes a slot 18. Similarly, there is an opening 19 in the end of the spearhead having a width approximately equal to the thickness of the earring post. The width of the slots 16 and 18 is approximately equal to the thickness of the spearhead and earring post, respectively. The key hole shaped holes and openings having th e dimensions described above provide means for temporarily locking the earring post and spearhead in mutual alignment. When the earring post and spearhead are mutually engaged through their respective holes, they engage endwise with one component being rotated approximately 900 with respect to the other component, as shown in Figure 4. If, when in this position of mutual alignment, the two components are pressed together, the portion of the spearhead between the opening 19 and the hole 14 engages in the slot 16 of the earring pbst, with the sides of the opening 19 engaging the flat surfaces of the earring post. Similarly, the portion of the earring post between the opening 19 and the hole 13 engages in the slot 18 of the spearhead, with the sides of the opening 17 abutting the flat surfaces of the spearhead.The two components are then locked together as shown in Figure 4. The earfitting is then relatively rigid, and can be readily ins erted through, the pierced hole in the ear lobe, without any need for manually holding the two components in mutal alignment. Once the earfitting has been so inserted, a slight pull on the two components will disengage the locking mechanism and the spearhead can then hinge downwardly as shown in Figure 5. Beeau,se of the design of the slots and holes, the spearhead can hinge relatively to the earring post in any of four directions viewed from the end of the earring post and there is therefore no need to insert the earfitting through the ear lobe in any particular attitude. A further embodiment of the invention is shown in Figures 6 to 9. Figures 6 and 7 show the earring post 21 and spearhead 22 separated, andFigures 8 and 9 show them assembled together Figures 6 and 9 are views from above, and Figures 7 and 8 are views from the side. One end 21A of the earring post is attached to the decorative part of the earring. not shown , and one end 22A of the spearhead is tapered for insertion through the ear lobe. The earring post 21 is a U shaped in transverse section channel member. The bottom of the channel terminates shortly before the end adjacent the spearhead, and two holes 23 are provided in the sides of the channel in this region to accommodate a rivet 24 which passes through a hole 25 in register on the spearhead. The spearhead can therefore rotate as shown by the arrow inFigure 8. Locking of the earring post and spearhead in mutual alignment can be achieved by a snap fitting not illustrated between a protrusion on one member and a cooperating depression In the other member. In the aligned position, a portion 26 of the spearhead opposite the end 22A abuts against the lower internal surface of the channel.This prevents the spearhead from being rotated, in a direction opposite to the arrow in Figure 8. Figures 10 and 11 are respectively a top view and a side view of a further and, at present, preferred embodiment cf the invention. Th,e earring post 31 is of tubular cylindrical section with a narrow gap or seam 32 along the top. The seam is also shown in the partial transverse sectional views of the earring post next to each Figure. One end 31A is connected to the decorative portion of the earring not shown . The spearhead 33 is made from flat sheet metal and has one end 33A tapered for insertion through the ear lobe. The end of the earring post opposite the end 31A is provided with two extending wings 34 which are slightly flattened to define a channel therebetween.The end of the spearhead opposite the end 33A is accommodated in this channel. Holes in register are provided in the two wings 34 and in the adjacent portion of the spearhead, and a rivet 35 passes through these holes. This enables the spearhead to hinge relative to the earring post, as shown by the broken lines inFigure 11. This fitting is assembled as fol.lows. The earring post is manufacbured initially as a cha nnel section, similar to the member 21 ef Figures 6 to 9.The spearhead is then engaged in a position at right angles to the earring post i.e. as shown by the broken lines in Figure 11 . The holes in the spearhead and in the wings 34 are aligned, the rivet is inserted, and it is spun to make a head on its end, thereby sealing it in position. The channel section of the earring post is then folded into a tube section, leaving the narrow seam 32. The spearhead is then straightened into the aligned position for the first time. In this process, the end edge 36 of the spearhead is forced across an edge 37 of the earring post in the region of the end of the seam 32. I n this first straightening the mechanism is stiff. The spearheiad and earring post are made of relatively hard but stiI somewhat resilient material, such as a spring hard 9 ct gold alloy. The material is apparently deformed slightly in the first straightening operation, but thereafter operates more easily in the manner of a snap fit mechanism, a set having been put, on the edge 37 of earring post in the region of the end of the seam The wearer can therefore feel a click when the spearhead is raised to the aligned position, and this greatly facilitates withdrawal. The mechanism described locks the spearhead and earring post temporarily in the aligned position, and this locking can be manually overriden by the wearer once the earfitting has been inserted. An alternative locking mechanism is operated by creating a convex surface on one, or both, sides of the spearhead adjacent to the end 36. This convex surface, by leverage on the adjacent enclosing sides of the earring post edge 37, causes temporary flexing of the.seam 32 whilst the spearhead is in its position of maximum crosssection. This interaction thus uses the entire earring post tube section as a semi circular spring and, owing to the greater surface areas involved, permits a wider variation of materials, of differing hardness, to be used.