# Metal bromine secondary battery.

## Abstract
High complex forming efficiency and battery efficiency are achieved in an electrolyte circulation type metal bromine secondary battery of the kind in which the negatively active material is cadmium, zinc or lead, wherein the anolyte storage tank 21 comprises an anolyte zone 22 and a complexing agent zone 23 having a cross sectional area smaller than that of the anolyte zone. Preferably electrolyte entering through inlet 27 passes through filter 28. As bromine charged electrolyte rises through complexing agent zone, the bromine forms a complex and debrominated electrolyte leaves anolyte zone 22 through outlet 24. Complex passes out through outlet 25. Optionally the anolyte storage tank 21 can be sur rounded by a catholyte storage tank 30 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A circulating electrolyte type metal bromine secondary battery in which the negatively active material is cadmium, zinc or lead, and anolyte is circulated between an anode compartment and an anolyte storage tank, characterized in that the anolyte storage tank comprises an anolyte zone and a complexing agent zone whose cross sectional areÅa is less than that of the anolyte zone. 2. A secondary battery according to Claim 1 characterized in that the anolyte storage tank is disposed within a catholyte storage tank. 3. A secondary battery according to Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that a filter is arranged in the lower part of said anolyte storage tank. 4. A secondary battery according to any precedingClaim characterized in that the complexing agent is an amine having the formula R R R N wherein R, R and R are alkyl radicals which may be the same or different, at least one of them being higher than propyl.

## Description
METAL BROMINE SECONDARY BATTERY The present invention relates to circulating electrolyte type metal halogen batteries and in particular to improvements in metal bromine secondary batteries of the type employing bromine as a positively active material. More particularly, the invention relates to a secondary battery in which a complexing agent is added to the anolyte storage tank such that particularly the bromine molecules in the electrolyte form a bromic complex compound constituting a separate phase in the lower part of the electrolyte, or even if the complexing agent does not unite with the bromine, the complexing agent does not dissolve in the electrolyte or does not easily dissolve in the electrolyte, forming a separate phase from the electrolyte, thus effectively maintaining the electrolyte in the desired condition and preventing self discharge and or an increase in the battery internal resistance, and thereby making the electrolyte storage tank compact and high in safety. The invention is described with reference to the accompanying Drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a diagram showing the principle of a prior art electrolyte circulation type metal bromine secondary battery Fig. 2 is a schematic diagram showing the construction of an embodiment of this invention Fig. 3 is a schematic diagram showing the construction of another embodiment of this invention and Fig. 4 is a graph showing the relation between the complexing agent concentration and the bromine molecule concentration in the supernatant electrolyte. A circulating electrolyte type metal halogen secondary battery known in the art is shown schematically inFig. 1. In this battery, an anolyte ZnBr2 Br2 is contained in one reaction chamber 2 of a cell 1, and a catholyte ZnBr2 is contained in the other reaction chamber 3. The chambers 2 and 3 are divided from one another by an ion exchange membrane 4. An anode 5 is positioned in the anolyte and a cathode 6 is positioned in the catholyte. The anolyte is supplied by a pump 11 from anolyte storage tank 9 via a valve 13, and the catholyte is supplied by a pump 12 from a catholyte storage tank 10 via 14. When a metal bromine secondary battery of the above construction is charged, bromine is deposited at the anode and the metal is deposited at the cathode.While the metal deposited at the cathode is electrodeposited on the cathode plate surface, the bromine deposited at the anode will dissolve in the electrolyte and is circulated along with the electrolyte. As a result, the bromine deposited during the operation of the battery can reach the zinc side of the opposite electrode via the separator, which is a major cause for the occurrence of self discharge.Also, bromine is a halogen, and highly corrosive, thus giving limitations to the materials for constructing batteries. To overcome these deficiencies, methods have heretofore been proposed in which a quaternary ammonium salt is used to form a bromine complex compound and thereby to separate the bromine from the electrolyte. The complex compounds of quaternary ammonium salts which have heretofore been proposed are all completely soluble in aqueous solutions which constitute electrolytes. As a result, while the addition of a complexing agent inevitably lowers the electric conductivity of the electrolyte, the complexing agent and the electrolyte form a single phase so that the rate of reaction between the deposited bromine and the complexing agent is high and thus there is no need to incorporate any special means in the construction of the electrolyte tank with respect to the reaction. However, where the electrolyte and the complexing agent constitute two phases, it is necessary to incorporate special means in the anolyte storage tank, so as to ensure a rapid reaction between the bromine molecules and the complexing agent. Even in such cases, the use of any external energy, e.g., agitation or heating for improving the reaction efficiency is not desirable, since this results in a loss of the station power. Our research directed towards overcoming the foregoing deficiencies has had some success by selecting as the complexing agent substances which are capable of separating the bromine from the electrolyte and insoluble in the electrolyte. It is therefore the object of this invention to provide an electrolyte circulation type secondary battery employing an improved electrolyte storage tank construction which satisfies the following two requirements for improving the efficiency of reaction between two separate phases constituted by an electrolyte and a complexing agent 1 The surface area for reaction between the bromine molecules and the complexing agent is increased and 2 The contacting period for the bromine molecules and the complexing agent is increased. The complexing agent can, for example, be a tertiary amine having the general formula R R R N where R, R and R are alkyl radicals, which may be the same or different, at least one of them being higher than the propyl radical C3H7 . The invention will now be described in detail with reference to the illustrated embodiments. Referring to Fig. 2, numeral 21 designates an anolyte storage tank comprising an upper electrolyte zone 22 and a complexing agent zone 23 or a zone for complexing agent and bromic complex compound . Numeral 24 designates an upper electrolyte outlet pipe, 25 a bromic complex compound outlet pipe, 26 a valve, and 27 an electrolyte inlet pipe. Numeral 28 designates a fine perforated filter positioned in the lower part of the electrolyte storage tank 21, and 29 an exhaust pipe With the battery of this invention constructed as described above, the electrolyte returned from the cell 1 Fig. 1 is introduced into the tank upper part from the electrolyte inlet pipe 27 via the fine perforated filter 28.The electrolyte is thereby finely divided so that by virtue of this and its buoyancy due to the specific gravity difference, the electrolyte rises into the upper zone 22, thereby satisfying the abovementioned requirement 1 . As it rises, the electrolyte passes through the complexing agent zone 23, so that the bromine reacts with the complexing agent and a bromic complex compound is formed. As shown in theFigure 2, the lower part the complexing agent zone 23 of the electrolyte storage tank 21 is smaller in cross sectional area than the tank upper part the upper electrolyte zone 22 and this serves to increase the period of reaction contact between the introduced electrolyte and the complexing agent and satisfies the above mentioned requirement 2 . The invention is not intended to be limited to this specific shape and the lower part may have an inverted frusto conical form. On the other hand, while the relation between the bottom surface of the electrolyte storage tank 21 and the part of the complexing agent zone 23 only needs to be determined by the amounts of the electrolyte and complexing agent which are contained in desired amounts, it is desirable that the height h of the complexing agent zone 23 be as large as possible, so as to increase the reaction period. After the bromine molecules have been removed, the electrolyte is supplied to the cell during the charge via the electrolyte outlet pipe 24, and during the discharge, the valve 26 is opened so that a mixture of the electrolyte and the complexing agent is supplied to the cell. Fig. 3 shows another embodiment of the invention which differs from the first embodiment described in connection with Fig. 2, in that a catholyte storage tank 30 is arranged around the anolyte storage tank 21. Numeral 31 designates a catholyte, 32 a catholyte inlet pipe, 33 a catholyte outlet pipe, and 34 an exhaust pipe. In this embodiment, the anolyte is circulated in the same manner as in the embodiment of Fig. 2 and the catholyte is supplied via the catholyte outlet pipe 33 into the cell chamber from which the electrolyte is returned to the catholyte storage tank 30 via the catholyte inlet pipe 32. To show the effect of this invention, the followingTable shows the electrolyte conductivities K obtained by using as the complexing agent three different tertiary amines and a conventional quaternary ammonium salt, respectively. Table complexing agent electrolyte composition K mho.cm 1 C2H5 4N.Br ZnBr2 3M C2H5 4N.Br 0.2M 0.106 CH3 3N ZnBr2 3M CH3 3N 0.9M 0.081 C2H5 3N ZnBr2 3M C2H5 3N 0.9M 0.075 C3H7 3N ZnBr2 3M C3H7 3N 0.9M 0.110 Since the conductivity of the used aqueous solution of zinc bromide is 0.124 mho. cm at room temperature, the conductivity of the supernatant electrolyte obtained by using tripropylamine is low and advantageous from the standpoint of the battery interna resistance. Fig. 4 shows the concentrations of the unabsorbed bromine molecules remaining in the upper electrolytes after a given amount of bromine had been released in the electrolytes containing different concentrations of ccmplexing agents. As will be seen from the Figure, among the examples of this invention the addition of the tripropylamine, even in small amounts, had the effect of absorbing the bromine satisfactorily, and there was no trace of bromine molecules in the supernatant electrolyte when 2.5 mols of it was added. From the foregoing description it will be seen that the present invention has the following advantages. 1 Due to the increased reaction surface area for the bromine molecules and the complexing agent and the increased reaction contact period between the two, the reaction efficiency of the bromic complex compound is high and thus the efficiency of the battery is also high. 2 Since no external energy is used to increase the reaction efficiency, there is no danger of causing any station power loss. 3 where the anolyte storage tank is arranged within the catholyte storage tank, externally the tanks appear as a single tank and they can be formed into a cylindrical or cubic shape which is compact and highly advantageous from the standpoint of utilization of space. 4 The zone of the bromic complex compound formed in the anolyte storage tank is protected by the catholyte storage tank and thus external shocks are lessened, thereby eliminating the danger of leakage of the bromic complex compound and ensuring safety. 5 The anolyte storage tank is subjected to a hydrostatic pressure due to the catholyte storage tank and practically there is no difference between the inner and outer pressures. Thus, the tanks can easily be made from any synthetic resin material which is thin and having excellent corrosion resisting properties.