# Method for increasing the efficiency of rumen fermentation of ruminant animals.

## Abstract
A method for improving the rumen fermentation in ruminant animals having a developed rumen function by administering an effective amount of the antibiotic Teichomycin A₂ or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides. Increasing the efficiency of rumen fermentation is known to increase the efficiency of feed utilization and or increase the rate of growth of ruminant animals.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process for improving the efficiency of rumen fermentation in ruminant animals having a developed rumen function which comprises administering to said animals the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the amount of the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides administered is from.0,004 mg per kg of ruminant animal body weight per day to 2 mg per kg of ruminant animal body weight per day. 3. The process of Claim 2 wherein the amount of the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides administered is from 0.01 mg per kg of ruminant animal body weight per day to 1 mg per kg of ruminant animal body weight per day. 4. A process for improving the efficiency of rumen fermentation in ruminant animals having a developed rumen function which comprises administering to said animals a ruminant animal feed composition containing from 0.1 to 80 parts per million by weight of the ultimate composition of the antibioticTeichomycin A2. 5. The process of Claims 1, 2, 3, or 4 wherein the ruminant animals are cattle. 6. The process of Claims 1, 2, 3, or 4 wherein the ruminant animals are sheep. 7. The process of Claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides is administered in admixture with ruminant animal feed. 8. The process of Claim 7 wherein the ruminant animals are cattle. 9. The process of Claim 7 wherein the ruminant animals are sheep. 10. An animal feed composition which comprises a mixture of animal feed and the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides. 11. The animal feed composition of Claim 10 wherein the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides is present in a concentration of from 0.1 to 100 parts per million by weight of the ultimate composition. 12. A ruminant animal feed composition suitable for improving the efficiency of rumen fermentation in ruminant animals having a developed rumen function which comprises a mixture of ruminant animal feed and the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides. 13. The ruminant animal feed composition ofClaim 12 wherein the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides is present in a concentration of from 0.1 to 80 parts per million by weight of the ultimate composition. 14. The ruminant animal feed composition ofClaim 13 wherein the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides is present in a concentration of from 0.2 to 40 parts per million by weight of the ultimate composition. 15. A ruminant animal feed concentrate comprising the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides. 16. The ruminant animal feed concentrate ofClaim 15 whereby said concentrate is mixed with a standard ruminant animal feed. 17. The ruminant animal feed concentrate ofClaim 15 wherein the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides is present in a concentration of from 0.05 to 80 percent by weight of the ultimate concentrate. 18. The ruminant animal feed concentrate ofClaim 17 wherein the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides is present in a concentration of from 1 to 30 percent by weight of the ultimate concentrate.

## Description
METHOD FOR INCREASING THE EFFICIENCY OF RUMEN FERMENTATION OF RUMINANT ANIMALSBackground of the Invention The metabolism of feed by ruminant animals such as cattle, sheep and goats having a developed rumen function has been a target of intensive investigation in recent years. It has been discovered that by improving the efficiency of rumen fermentation, a corresponding increase in the rate of growth and or an increase in the efficiency of feed utilization by the animals will occur. The overall efficiency of rumen fermentation is a function of the symbiotic activities of the microbial species inhabiting the rumen. These microbial species are responsible for the transformation of carbohydrates as well as protein and nonprotein nitrogenous substrates into forms such as microbial cell protein and volatile fatty acids suitable for biochemical utilization by the ruminant animal. The exact composition of the end products is a consequence of competition between the microbial species for the substrates or nutrients. The efficiency of the rumen fermentation is an important factor in determining the degree of feed utilization efficiency and or the rate of growth of the animal. For example, during nitrogen metabolism, a portion of the feed protein depending on the type of protein is hydrolyzed by microbial enzymes in the rumen to ammonia and isoacids which are subsequently fixed into microbial protein. Other proteins from feed sources are metabolized to peptides and free amino acids. The peptides may subsequently be transformed into free amino acids by certain ruminal bacteria for example, Bacteroides ruminicola leaving a pool of free amino acids which may then be assimilated into microbial protein or catabolized to produce energy for microbial growth. The free amino acids may also be assimilated directly by the animal and used for protein synthesis or catabolized as a source of energy. Carbohydrate metabolism provides energy for the growth of rumen microbes primarily through the fermentation of cellulose and starch. The insoluble polymers are converted to oligosaccharides and soluble sugars by extracellular enzymes from the rumen microorganisms. The resulting sugars are then fermented to one of various forms of volatile fatty acids, carbon dioxide and hydrogen. As used herein, the volatile fatty acids acetic acid, propionic acid and butyric acid are also referred to as acetate, propionate and butyrate, respectively. Volatile fatty acids are utilized by the animal as primary carbon and energy sources with varying degrees of efficiency. High levels of propionic acid are desirable because propionic acid is a primary metabolic precursor for gluconeogenesis in the animal.The fermentation of 6 carbon sugars to acetic acid is relatively inefficient since in this process, carbon is lost via eructation in the form of carbon dioxide or methane. On the other hand, the production of propionic acid does not result in a loss of carbon. Rumen metabolism studies have shown that some of the rumen microbes such as various Ruminococcus andButyrivibrio species ferment the monosaccharides of complex carbohydrates to formic, acetic, butyric and succinic acids, along with carbon dioxide and hydrogen.The carbon dioxide and hydrogen produced during fermentation are used in the formation of methane through the activity of methanogenic bacteria. Rumen microorganisms such as various Bacteroides species ferment carbohydrates predominantly to succinic acid which is converted to the desirable propionic acid by various Selenomonas species or other microorganisms. It becomes possible then to improve feed utilization efficiency and or the rate of growth of ruminant animals by selectively inhibiting or stimulating the growth of ruminal micro flora involved in rumen fermentation. For instance, feed utilization efficiency and or rate of growth can be improved by increasing the molar proportion of propionic acid to acetic acid or by increasing total volatile fatty acid concentration i.e. the sum of acetic, propionic and butyric acids in the rumen. For example, an increase in the molar portion of propionic acid can be accomplished by selectively inhibiting the growth of various species ofRuminococcus and Butyrivibrio and by stimulating the growth of various species of Bacteroides and Selenomonas.Likewise, the inhibition of methanogenic bacteria results in a shift of carbohydrate metabolism toward the production of the desirable, growth improving volatile fatty acids, particularly propionic acid and butyric acid. Higher levels of the metabolic end products of feed protein degradation such as ammonia and isoacids can lead to such beneficial effects as a stimulation of microbial protein synthesis. In addition, a partial inhibition of the deamination activity of the rumen micro flora makes more of the amino acids available for the nutrition of the animal.Summary of the Invention The present invention is directed to a method of improving the efficiency of rumen fermentation of ruminant animals having a developed rumen function.Improving the efficiency of rumen fermentation improves the efficiency of feed utilization and or the rate of growth of ruminant animals. The novel method of the present invention requires the use of the antibioticTeichomycin A2, or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides. As used herein, the phrase Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides means at least one member selected from the group consisting of the antibiotic TeichomycinA2, its physiologically acceptable salts, its physiologically acceptable esters and its physiologically acceptable amides.Thus, in the method and compositions described herein, Teichomycin A2 or a physiologically acceptable salt, ester or amide thereof can be utilized individually or various combinations of Teichomycin A2 its physiologically acceptable salts, esters or amides may be used. The antibiotic Teichomycin A2 is disclosed and claimed in U.S. Patent 4,239,751 issued to Coronelli et al.,December 16, 1980. The physiologically acceptable salts, physiologically acceptable esters and physiologically acceptable amides of Teichomycin A2 are readily prepared employing procedures well known in the art. Representative examples of the physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides of Teichomycin A2 are described below. Teichomycin A2 contains free carboxyl groups and thus exhibits the common property of an organic acid in that it forms salts. Representative of the inorganic bases forming physiologically acceptable cationic salts with Teichomycin A2 are, for example, the alkali metal hydroxides such as lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide the alkali metal carbonates and bicarbonates such as lithium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate the alkaline earth metal hydroxides and carbonates such as calcium hydroxide and magnesium carbonate and like inorganic bases. Illustrative of the organic bases forming physiologically acceptable salts with Teichomycin A2 are the primary, secondary and tertiary C1 C4 lower alkyl and lower hydroxyalkyl amines such as ethylamine, isopropylamine, diethylamine, methyl n butylamine, ethanolamine, and diethanolamine. The ammonium salts of Teichomycin A2 are prepared with ammonia or various ammonium hydroxides. Physiologically acceptable esters can readily be prepared by esterification of the carboxyl groups ofTeichomycin A2 to give esters such as alkyl esters, cycloalkyl esters and aryl esters. Typical alkyl esters are, for example, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl or butyl esters. Typical cycloalkyl esters are cyclopropyl and cyclohexyl esters. Typical of the aryl esters are those such as the phenyl ester. Esters can also be made by acylation of one or more of the derivatives described herein having hydroxyl groups of these antibiotics. For example, esters are made by acylation using groups such as formyl, acetyl, cyclohexylacetyl, and benzoyl. Esters such as phosphate esters, can also be prepared from the hydroxyl groups ofTeichomycin A2. Physiologically acceptable amide derivatives of Teichomycin A2 can be prepared employing amines such as ethyl glycine, ethyl amine, diethylamine, n methyl piperazine, or by employing acids such as acetic or succinic acid. As used herein, the term physiologically acceptable when used in conjunction with salts, esters or amides refers to those salts, esters or amides ofTeichomycin A2 which will not cause significant adverse physiological effects when administered to an animal at dosages consistent with the method of the present invention. In the method and compositions described herein, Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides are employed. The antibiotic is administered in an amount sufficient to increase rumen fermentation efficiency which will provide an improvement in feed utilization efficiency and or rate of growth in ruminant animals.For purposes of the invention, the amount of the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides to be administered may range from 0.004 milligram mg per kilogram kg of ruminant animal body weight per day to 2 mg per kg of ruminant animal body weight per day, with a preferred range of from 0.01 mg per kg of ruminant animal body weight per day to 1 mg per kg of ruminant animal body weight per day. The exact amount of the antibiotic to be employed will vary depending upon factors such as the species of animal, or the size, weight, age, and health of the animal. In particular cases, the concentration to be administered may be determined by conventional dose titration techniques. Teichomycin A2 exerts a positive influence on metabolism of feed carbohydrate and protein in the rumen. The action of Teichomycin A2 increases the availability of the nutrients contained in the feed, thus allowing improved efficiency of feed utilization by the animal. Teichomycin A2 stimulates carbohydrate metabolism, increasing the rate of production of the major volatile fatty acids and increasing the energy available to the animal for growth. Teichomycin A2 also stimulates the breakdown of feed protein in the rumen, resulting in an accumulation of amino acids, which are then available to the animal for increased protein synthesis. In the presence of Teichomycin A2 the growth rate of the bacterial population is also stimulated, thus providing additional protein to the animal via normal digestion. The effect of Teichomycin A2 on the rumen fermentation is unique in contrast to commercial antibiotics. Antibiotics such as chlortetracycline, tylosin, oleandomycin, erythromycin, lincomycin and penicillin G cause a dramatic depression of metabolism in the rumen, which is observed as a decrease in the production of volatile fatty acids the greatest depression is in the production of propionic acid, which is the major precursor for glucose synthesis in the animal. None of these commercial antibiotics exert positive effects on rumen metabolism which are beneficial to the animal. Teichomycin A2 is also unique in contrast to commercial ruminant feed additives such as monensin and lasalocid which are used to improve animal growth and feed utilization. The activityof.these ionophores in the rumen is characterized by depression of microbial growth and feed protein breakdown. They also alter the ratio of volatile fatty acids produced in the rumen by the. suppression of acetic acid production, thus increasing the molar proportion of propionic acid and decreasing the ratio of acetic acid to propionic acid.The overall effect of the ionophores in the rumen is the selective depression of microbial metabolism as compared to Teichomycin A2 which stimulates microbial metabolism. Stimulation of total volatile fatty acid production and increased availability of nitrogen may also lead to an increase in milk production in lactating ruminants thus benefiting industries such as the dairy industry.Description of Some Preferred Embodiments The method of the present invention involves the administration of the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides to ruminant animals having a developed rumen function.The novel method of the present invention is equally applicable to all of the ruminant animals, however, the greatest impact from this invention should be realized in those industries involved with economically important ruminants such as cattle. For example, due to improved rumen fermentation, beef producing cattle treated in accordance with the method of the present invention will exhibit an improved rate of growth and or will consume less feed per unit of weight gain. The antibiotic Teichomycin A2, or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides may be incorporated into animal feed at a concentration of from 0.1 to 100 parts per million ppm by weight of the ultimate composition. Preferably, for ruminant animals, the antibiotic Teichomycin A2, or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides may be incorporated into ruminant animal feed at a con centMation of from 0.1 to 80 ppm by weight of the ultimate composition, and especially preferred for ruminant animals in the range of from 0.2 to 40 ppm by weight of the ultimate composition. It may be added to drinking water or administered in the form of boluses, liquid feed compositions or incorporated into salt blocks. It may also be administered as an emulsion, suspension, tablet, capsule or any other appropriate veterinary dosage form in either single dose increments or in sustained release form. The incorporation of antibiotics into suitable dosage forms is well known in the pharmaceutical sciences. The method of this invention includes the incorporation of Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters, and amides into suitable dosage forms together with any additional diluents, adjuvants, excipients, fillers, stabilizers, disintegrators, matrixes, polymers, emulsifying and suspending agents or any other pharmaceutical vehicle or ingredients necessary to a finished dosage form. For commercial use it is convenient to provide a feed additive premix, mineral supplement or concentrate containing the antibiotic Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides in a proportion such that a predetermined quantity of the premix or concentrate may be added to a quantity of standard ruminant animal feed. The feed additive premix or concentrate comprises Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides along with physiologically acceptable adjuvants and carriers such as soybean meal, ground corn, ground corn cobs, corn oil, barley, wheat or other edible feed grade material, mineral or vitamin mixtures, or an innocuous diluent such as an alcohol, a glycol or molasses which may be suitable for the particular animals being treated.For these purposes, the premix or concentrate may contain from 0.05 to 80 percent by weight and preferably of from 1 to 30 percent by weight ofTeichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides in admixture with a suitable adjuvant such as previously described. Crampton, et al. Applied Animal Nutrition, 1969 and Church Livestock Feeds and Feeding, 1977 further describe the process of admixing compounds such as TeichomycinA2 into feed compositions, premixes and concentrates and are incorporated herein by reference. The method of the present invention further contemplates treating a ruminant animal with one of the novel compositions containing Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides in combination with one or more additives such as coccidiostats, antibiotics, minerals, vitamins or any other physiologically benefical agents employed in animal husbandry. The following examples are set forth as a means of illustrating the present invention. They are specific examples of preferred embodiments and are not intended as a limitation on the invention.Example I Two rumen fistulated Holstein cows were tested over a period of five months which included pretreatment, treatment, and post treatment periods. One of the cows was placed on a high grain, restricted roughage diet hereinafter referred to as the hay grain diet and fed 7.2 kg per day of a mixture containing 1.8 kg of alfalfa hay and 5.4 kg of the composition shown below kg 100 kg of Total Composition Shelled corn, 86 dry matter 71.553Corn gluten meal, 60 protein, 90 dry matter 2.915Beet pulp, 90 dry matter 21.381Dicalcium phosphate 1.000Potassium sulfate 0.673Calcium sulfate 0.245Trace Mineral Salt1 1.0Magnesium oxide 0.096Vitamin premix2 Urea 1.137 100.000 percent dry matter 87.47 1Commercially available Trace Mineral Salt for dairy cows was used.2Commercially available premix was used to furnish 5511 International Units IU vitamin A and 2756 IU vitamin D3 per kg dry matter of ration.The other cow was placed on an all roughage diet of alfalfa hay and trace mineral salt hereinafter referred to as hay diet and also fed 7.2 kg per day. Each diet contained at least 12 percent protein. TheTeichomycin A2 was added to the diets of each animal as a feed concentrate in a quantity representing the test concentration for a given treatment period. TheTeichomycin A2 was added to 0.45 kg of ground corn hay grain diet or 0.45 kg of ground alfalfa hay hay diet at the concentration being tested in a particular treatment period and fed to the animals on a daily basis. During the pre treatment period, baseline analyses of the parameters to be measured during the investigation were made, and are set out below. The treatment periods consisted of three separate increments each 4 weeks long. During each increment a different concentration of the antibiotic was administered.During the first treatment period the antibiotic was administered to the cows at the rate of 5 mg per animal per day. In the second period, the rate was increased to 25 mg per animal per day, and finally to 100 mg ofTeichomycin A2 per animal per day in the third treatment period. Rumen fluid and blood samples were taken for analysis on days 7, 14, 21, and 28 of each treatment period. On each of the indicated days, the rumen fluid samples were taken just prior to feeding, at 30 minutes, 1 hour, and then at each hour with the last sample taken 8 hours after feeding. The pre feeding rumen fluid samples were also used for weekly in vitro rumen fermentations.The blood samples were taken just prior to feeding and at 2 hour intervals, with the last sample taken 8 hours after feeding. A post treatment period where no antibiotic was administered was utilized to evaluate return to pre treatment values. The blood samples were analyzed for blood urea nitrogen, glucose and ammonia. The rumen fluid samples were analyzed for volatile fatty acid concentrations. Protein degradation and amino acid deamination were monitored by measuring the levels of isoacids, for example, iso butyric, iso valeric and valeric acids , alpha amino nitrogen, and ammonia nitrogen. Microbial protein levels were also measured. The data tabulated below clearly show the beneficial effects of the method of the present invention on in vivo rumen fermentation. The data also suggest that the method of this invention is not dependent upon the diet of the animal. The numbers in each of the following tables are expressed as a percent of the pre treatment or control values. Thus, a number greater than 100 indicates an increase in the indicated parameter as compared to the pre treatment or control value, and a number smaller than 100 indicates a decrease in the indicated parameter as compared to the pre treatment or control value. Evaluation of Teichomycin A2 in aFistulated Cow on a Hay Diet Results Expressed as Percent of the Pre treatment Value 1 Carbohydrate MetabolismTotal TotalAcetate Propionate Butyrate VFA2 A P3 Isoacids 5 mg animal day 89 101 98 90 89 93 25 mg animal day 146 178 174 154 88 153 100 mg animal day 120 134 148 125 87 143 Post Treatment 111 108 119 111 100 150 Continued Nitrogen Metabolism Blood Plasma Soluble Insoluble ProteinAmmonia N Amino N Protein Bacterial Protozoal Glucose Urea Ammonia 5 mg animal day 123 94 83 116 95 97 60 76 25 mg animal day 154 158 93 98 84 98 95 84 100 mg animal day 203 213 108 178 105 116 106 92Post Treatment 263 221 120 161 125 104 136 80 1The means for the daily samples were averaged for each of the four weeks and these weekly means were then averaged to determine the 4 week mean. The 4 week mean is presented as a percent of the pre treatment value.2Total VFA Total Volatile Fatty Acid i.e., the sum of acetate, propionate andDutyrate concentrations .3A P Mole ratio of acetate to propionate. Statistically significant at the 95 percent confidence level P 0.05 . Evaluation of Teichomycin A2 inFistulated Cow on a Hay Grain Diet Results Expressed as Percent of the Pre treatment Value1 Carbohydrate MetabolismTotal TotalAcetate Propionate Butyrate VFA2 A P3 Isoacids 5 mg animal day 115 114 121 116 100 115 25 mg animal day 125 119 133 125 104 115 100 mg animal day 117 127 118 120 91 123 Post Treatment 111 98 107 108 110 103 Continued Nitrogen Metabolism Blood Plasma Soluble Insoluble ProteinAmmonia N Amino N Protein Bacterial Protozoal Glucose Urea Ammonia 5 mg animal day 134 229 119 118 115 100 104 75 25 mg animal day 136 201 98 100 108 104 105 79 100 mg animal day 144 288 131 80 122 118 94 92Post Treatment 153 219 133 114 133 106 99 71 1The means for the daily samples were averaged for each of the four weeks and these weekly means were then averaged to determine the 4 week mean. The 4 week mean is presented as a percent of the pre treatment value.2Total VFA Total Volatile Fatty Acid i.e., the sum of acetate, propionate and butyrate concentrations .3A P Mole ratio of acetate to propionate. Statistically significant at the 95 percent confidence level P 0.05 . In general, Teichomycin A2 increased the concentration of total volatile fatty acids evidencing a general stimulation of carbohydrate metabolism and shifted the ratio of the acetate and propionate components toward the more efficient propionate form. Generally, nitrogen metabolism was also enhanced as noted by increased concentrations of isoacids, ammonia nitrogen and amino nitrogen as well as soluble protein. There was at least a partial inhibition of amino acid degradation as shown by significant increases in amino acid concentrations. In general, increased microbial protein levels were observed indicating a stimulation of microbial growth. It is believed that the inconsistent results seen only at the 5 mg animal day level in the animal on the hay diet were due to a diet formulation problem which was corrected during the indicated treatment period. The in vitro studies were conducted in 24 hour batch fermentations in anaerobic gestors equipped with manometers. The manometers contained 20 percentNaCl acidified with HC1 to a pH of less than 2 in order to measure the total gas production during the fermentation. The digestors contained 70 milliliters ml of fresh rumen fluid from one of the fistulated cows, the desired amount of antibiotic i.e., 0, 0.2, 2.0 or 10 ppm , and 130 ml of a fermentation medium of the following composition Mineral solution 1 7.5 ml Mineral solution 2 7.5 ml Micromineral solution 1.5 mlResazurin solution 0.1 0.1 mlClarified rumen fluid 10.0 mlNaHCO3 6.33 solution 8.0 ml Na2S 9H2O 2.5 solution 0.5 mlDistilled water 64.9 ml 100.0 ml To each 100 ml of the above preparation, 0.8 gram of dry nutrients were added. The dry nutrients consisted of 0.3 gram of Avicel PH 101 microcrystalline cellulose, 0.3 gram of casein, and 0.1 gram each of anhydrous glucose and soluble starch. The clarified rumen fluid of the fermentation medium was prepared by collecting rumen fluid from an untreated fistulated cow on a hay diet approximately 12 hours after feeding. The fluid was strained through gauze and centrifuged at 5,000 rpm. The supernatant was placed in one liter amber bottles about 400 ml bottle and autoclaved at 7 kg of pressure for sterilization. All of the solutions of the fermentation medium were added as prepared stock solutions of the following compositions Mineral Solution 1 grams literK2HPO4 12.5Mineral Solution 2KH2PO4 12.5 MgSO4 7H2O 3.0NaCl 12.0 CaCl2 2H20 1.6Micro Mineral Solution FeSO4 7H2O 0.200H3BO3 0.030 CoCl2 6H2O 0.020 ZnSO4 7H2O 0.010 MnCl2 4H2O 0.003Na2MoO4 2H2O 0.003 NiCl2 6H2O 0.002 CuCl2 2H2O 0.001 Adjust pH to about 2 Resazurin Solution 0 0.1 Resazurin 1.0 Sodium Bicarbonate Solution 6.33 NaHCO3 63.3 saturated with, and stored under 100 CO2 Sodium Sulfide Solution 2.5 Na2S9H2O 25.0 stored under nitrogen One 24 hour fermentation for each animal was carried out each week during all treatment periods.Gas composition analyses were made at 24 hours in order to determine the concentration of methane. The 24 hour methane values for each of the four weeks in a given treatment period were averaged. The fermentations to which Teichomycin A2 had been added were compared to control fermentations where no Teichomycin A2 was added to the fermentation medium . Generally, from the data given below, it can be seen that methane production decreased when antibiotic levels in the fermentation medium were increased. The tables which follow summarize the data gained from fermentations of rumen fluid taken from the cow on the hay diet Table I and the cow on the hay grain diet Table II .The numbers represent the difference between the treated and control fermentations, expressed as a percent of control. TABLE I METHANE CONCENTRATION IN THE IN VITRO FERMENTATIONS HAY DIET RESULTS EXPRESSED AS A PERCENT OF CONTROL Treatment Teichomycin A2 Concentration Period in the In Vitro Fermentation Medium ppm 0.2 2 10Pre Treatment 105 88 78 5 mg animal day 91 76 69 10 mg animal day 91 80 71 25 mg animal day 94 77 59Post Treatment 95 81 73 TABLE II METHANE CONCENTRATION IN THE IN VITRO FERMENTATIONS HAY GRAIN DIET RESULTS EXPRESSED AS A PERCENT OF CONTROL Treatment Teichomycin A2 Concentration Period in the In Vitro Fermentation Medium ppm 0.2 2 10Pre Treatment 97 92 81 5 mg animal day 102 84 68 10 mg animal day 100 98 88 25 mg animal day 105 99 87Post Treatment 94 89 82 Example II In vitro evaluations of the antibioticTeichomycin A2 were carried out in 24 hour batch fermentations in anaerobic digestors having gas and liquid sampling ports and manometers to measure total gas production during the fermentation. Three different concentrations of Teichomycin A2 0.2, 1.0 and 5.0 ppm were prepared in 5 percent methanol solutions and placed in three separate groups of digestors. Fresh rumen fluid 700 ml from an untreated fistulated cow was added to 1300 ml of the fermentation medium described in Example I and mixed. After mixing, 10 ml were removed and analyzed as a control, and 200 ml were placed in each of the digestors. The manometers were attached and nitrogen was bubbled through to remove oxygen. The digestors were then placed in a 40 C water bath and continuously agitated. The pH of the medium was checked and adjusted to pH 6.8 7.2 with CO2. The cultures were sampled at 0, 5 and 24 hours. The 5 hour sample was used primarily to note effects on nitrogen metabolism. Measurement of the change in concentration of protein, amino acids and ammonia in the fermentation after 5 hours was an indication of the extent to which the rate of protein degradation and deamination were inhibited by the antibiotic being tested. Concentrations of isoacids, i.e. iso butyric, iso valeric and valeric acids were determined at 24 hours and used as a measure of inhibition of deamination since the major source of these acids is the deamination of the amino acids valine, leucine and proline, respectively. The 24 hour sample was used to measure volatile fatty acid production. The mole ratio of acetate to propionate A P was used to determine if the antibiotic increased the molar proportion of propionate in total volatile fatty acid concentrations. The gas composition was also determined at 24 hours and the amount of methane produced was noted. The rate at which gas was produced was determined by reading the manometers hourly at 3, 4 and 5 hours to monitor microbial metabolism.The results of these in vitro fermentations are set forth below, and are expressed as a percent of control.The data generally show that Teichomycin A2 improved rumen fermentation efficiency as evidenced by an increase in the molar proportion of propionate a decreased A P ratio . The data also show thatTeichomycin A2 inhibited deamination as evidenced by an increase in amino nitrogen concentration and a decrease in isoacid concentration. In Vitro Evaluation of Teichomycin A2 expressed as a percent of control ProteinConcentration Gas Rate Methane Degradation Amino N Ammonia N 0.2 ppm1 96 100 92 90 108 1 ppm1 103 102 94 110 108 5 ppm1 98 94 90 153 73 Continued TotalIsoacids Acetate Propionate Butyrate VFA2 A P3 120 83 102 116 93 81 94 89 109 112 98 83 62 81 122 120 93 67 1Average of 3 batch fermentations.2Total VFA Total Volatile Fatty Acid i.e., the sum of acetate, propionate and butyrate concentrations .3A P Mole ratio of acetate to propionate. Example III To show that the method of the present invention is not limited by the type of ruminant animal treated, the following study was conductedKsing sheep rumen fluid. In vitro fermentations were performed following substantially the same procedures as described inExample II. The anaerobic digestors contained sheep rumen fluid and Teichomycin A2 in a concentration of 5 ppm. The data are set forth below and are expressed as a percent of control. An improvement in rumen fermentation was evidenced by an increase in the molar proportion of propionate and a decrease in the production of methane. Total isoacids were depressed and amino nitrogen levels were increased indicating an inhibition of deamination. In Vitro Evaluation of Teichomycin A2 in Sheep Rumen Fluid expressed as a percent of control Protein concentration Gas Rate Methane Degradation Amino N Ammonia N 5 ppm 118 74 98 123 75 Continued TotalIsoacids Acetate Propionate Butyrate VFA1 A P2 47 86 117 90 96 74 1Total VFA Total Volatile Fatty Acid i.e., the sum of acetate, propionate and butyrate levels .2A P Mole ratio of acetate to propionate.