# Stabilized 1,1,1 trichlorethane.

## Abstract
Stabilized 1,1,1 trichloroethane characterized in that it comprises a combination of 3 5 wt tert butanol, 1.5 2.5 wt. 1,4 dioxane, 0.3 0.8 wt. nitroalkane with 1 to 3 carbon atoms, 0.3 0.8 wt. butylene oxide and or cyclohexene oxide and 0.01 0.05 wt. aliphatic and or heterocyclic amine as stabilizers.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. Stabilized 1,1, 1 trichloroethane characterized in that it comprises a combination of 3 5 wt. tert butanol, 1.5 2.5 wt. 1,4 dioxane, 0.3 0.8 wt. nitroalkane with 1 to 3 carbon atoms, 0.3 0.8 wt. butylene oxide and or cyclohexene oxide and 0.01 0.05 wt. aliphatic and or heterocyclic amine as stabilizers. 2. Stabilized 1,1, 1 trichloroethane as claimed in claimed 1, characterized in that it comprises nitromethane. 3. Stabilized 1,1, 1 trichloroethane as claimed in claims 1 or 2, characterized in that it comprises diisopropylamine. 4. Stabilized 1,1, 1 trichloroethane as claimed in any one of the claims 1 to 3, characterized in that it comprises 3.7 wt. tert butanol, 1.8 wt. 1,4 dioxane, 0.5 wt. 1,2 butylene oxide, 0.6 wt. nitromethane and 0.02 wt. diisopmFylamine. 5. Stabilized 1,1, 1 trichloroethane as claimed in claims 1 or 2, characterized in that it contains 3.7 wt. tert butanol, 1.8 wt. 1,4 dioxane, 0.2 wt. 1,2 butylene oxide, 0.3 wt. cyclohexene oxide, 0.6 wt. nitromethane and 0.03 wt. triethylamine. 6. Synergistic stabilizer composition for application of stabilized 1,1, 1 trichloroethane, characterized in that said ccanposition comprises tert butanol, 1 ,4 dioxane, a nitroalkane with 1 to 3 carbon atoms, butylene oxide and or cyclohexene oxide and an aliphatic and or heterocyclic amine.

## Description
STABILIZED 1,1,1 TRICHIORDETESNE The invention relates to stabilized 1,1, l trichloroethane and to a stabilizer composition suitable to stabilize l,1,1 trichlorc ethane. 1,1, 1 Trichloroethane is a technical solvent widely used on account of its low toxicity and good ecological properties. One of the trout important fields of application of 1,1, 1 trichloroethane is the cleaning and or degreasing of metal objects. It is known that chlorinated hydrocarbons such as perchloromethylene, trichloroethylene, 1,1,1 trichloroethane and other aliphatic halogen hydrocarbons readily decompose. 1,l,l Trichloroethane, however, decomposes particularly readily in the presence of metals, in particular of light metals. Light mentals, such as aluminium and aluminium alloys, catalyse said decomposition particularly in the presence of heat to a high degree, with hydrogen chloride and other deccmposition products being formed. Decomposition takes place autocatalytically in the manner of a Friedel Crafts reaction and can sometimes proceed violently. The corrosion, acccmpanying said decomposition, of the metal objects to be cleaned or on the degreasing equipment is extremely undesirable.For industrial use, therefore, 1,1, 1 tri chloroethane is only employed with added stabilizers. For the cleaning of mentals, stabilized 1,1, 1 trichloroethane is used to rem rve lubricating oils, greases or greasy compounds at either normal teeperature or boiling point. Reliable stabilization, however is particularly difficult if the 1,1, 1 trichloroethane is used at boiling temperatures, as is the case with vapour degreasing equipment. To achieve a permanent stabilizer effect during both cold and hot application of 1,1, 1 trichloroethane, suitable selection of the stabilizer constituents with a view to their effectiveness in both the liquid phase and the vapour phase is essential. For the stabilizing of 1,1, 1 trichloroethane, the most varied chemical ccarrpounds and mixtures have in the past been proposed, such as nitroalkanes, amines, nitriles, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, olefins, glycols, alkoxyalkanes and ethers. The knawn stabilizer mixtures must, however, be added in relatively large quantities to achieve an adequate effect. Even then the knawn stabilizer mixtures do not always satisfy the strict requirements imposed on the stabilizer effect in various test methods. It was therefore the aim of the invention to find a l,l,l tri chloroethane stabilizer ccmposition of which the individual constituents have a synergistic effect on stabilization and exhibit sufficient effectiveness during hot and cold degreasing. In addition, a l,l,l trichloroethane stabilized according to the invention was intended to satisfy the extremely strict requirements of the BAM test method in all respects. A particularly stringent test method has been developed by the BNM Bundesanstalt für Materialpriifung, Berlin in order to test the long term stabilizer effect, particularly under the adverse conditions of hot degreasing in the presence of aluminium. This test comprises three different test procedures 100 ml of stabilized 1,1, l trichloroethane and 100 ml toluene are both refluxed for 18 h at a bath temperature of 1200C with the following reagents added BNM 1 18 g aluminium shavings, 0.7 g AlCl3BAM 2 as BNM 1 plus addition of 1 g zinc stearateBNM 3 as BAM 1 plus addition of 10 ml oleic acid. In a separate test the stabilized 1,1, l trichloroethane is separated into three fractions of equal magnitude by simple distillation in line with the experimental conditions for fractional analysis according to DIN 51 751. Each of the three fractions is separately examined by the method described under BAM 1. The test, which constitutes a destructive testing method, is considered to have been passed if no violent exothermic reactions arise during any of the individual tests described. It has now been found that 1,1, 1 trichloroethane can be effectively stabilized by a stabilizer mixture on the basis of tert butanol, 1,4 dioxane, nitroalkane with 1 to 3 carbon atoms, butylene oxide and or cyclohexene oxide and aliphatic and or heterocyclic amines. The invention relates to stabilized 1,1, 1 trichloroethane characterized in that it comprises a combination of 3 5 wt. tert butanol, 1.5 2.5 wt. 1,4 dioxane, 0.3 0.8 wt. nitroalkane with 1 to 3 carbon atoms, 0.3 0.8 wt. butylene oxide and or cyclohexene oxide and 0.01 0.05 wt. aliphatic and or heterocyclic amine as stabilizers. Of the nitroalkanes with 1 to 3 carbon atoms, nitronethane is particularly preferred in the stabilizer combination according to the invention. The amine constituents can, for example, consist of diisopropylamine, triethylamine and or N methyl irorpholine, with diisopropylamine being preferred. According to a particularly advantageous erribodjitent of the present invention, 1,1, 1 trichloroethane is stabilized with 3.7 wt. tert butanol, 1.8 wt. 1,4 dioxane, 0.5 wt. 1,2 butylene oxide, 0.6 wt. nitrarethane and 0.02 wt. diisopropylamine, each in relation to the total composition. Although the individual constituents of the stabilizer bination according to the invention have already been proposed in a number of publications, the advantageous effect of the novel synergistic cambination has not hitherto been recognized. The constituents contained in the stabilizer mixture according to the invention are not effective when used individually neither combinations of 1,4 dicxane, nitromethane and butylene oxide or of tert butanol, 1,4 dioxane and butylene oxide pass the stringent BAM test. FbutSssmDre, fram the German Published Application 29 26 000 is known the stabilizing of 1,1, l trichloroethane by a cambination of the following additives 0.1 to 5 wt. tert butanol, 0.1 to 5 wt. trioxane, 0.1 to 5 wt. epoxide, 0.1 to 3 wt. nitroalkane and 0.001 to 1 wt. amine as well as at least one special antioxidant if necessary. In example 7 of said Published Application, according to an embodiment designated as advantageous the sole cyclic ether 1,3,5 trioxane is added as one of the five obligatory constituents. There are, however, a number of reasons for not using trioxane as cyclic ether constituent. Trionane is a formaldehyde derivative and sublirres when heated. At boiling temperature of, 1,1,1 trichloroethane particularly in the presence of acids, trioxane depolymerizes to formaldehyde and or paraformaldehyde. Because of the volatility of the decompo sition products, no long term stabilizer effect can be guaranteed if 1,3 ,5 trioxane is used as the sole cyclic ether. In comparative experiments this unsatisfactory behaviour has been clearly 6ocmented. For that purpose, 1,1,1 trichloroethane, stabilized in accordance with example 7 of German Published Application 29 26 000, having the composition 1,1,1 trichloroethane 94.995 a tert butyl alcohol 2.5 b trioxane 1.4 c 1,2 butylene oxide 0.4 d nitrcnsethane 0.7 e N methyl irorpholine 0.005 is taken and subjected to the BAM test with fractional distillation. It is found that 1,3,5 trioxane is concentrated in the 3rd distillation fraction, in accordance with its relatively high boiling point. The trioxane content of this fraction is reduced as follows in the course of the BAM test start of eeeeraitnt 100 trioxane after 16 h reflexing 15 trioxane after 24 h refluxing less than 1 trioxane.During this tire, particularly between 16 h and 24 h, E.Cl is continuously liberated. This is a disadvantage, in as much as it gives rise to intense corrosion under adverse conditions of use. bSDreover, the volatility of the trioxane decomposition products represents an extreme load on the environment, which gives rise to unavoidable exposures, particularly during work, to open degreasing belts. Similar results are obtained when BAM tests 2 and 3 are performed. Under analogous experimental conditions, on the other hand, there is virtually no deccanposition when the cyclic ether constituent 1,4 dioxane according to the invention is used the 1,4 dioxane content is still above 90 of the initial value after being refluxed for 24 h and moreover, there is no identifiable liberation of HCl. When BNM tests 2 and 3 performed, no decomposition whatsoever of the 1,4 dioxane can be detected. In the comparative examples 1 to 5 and the examples according to the invention stated hereinafter, 1,1, 1 trichloroethane was mixed with the constituents stated in each case and examined in accordance with the aforesaid test method Ccmparative example 1 1,1, 1 trichloroethane with wt. nitromethane 1 tert butanol 5 butylene oxide 0.5Results of BAM test BAM 1 passedBAM 2 passedBAM 3 passed fiAM 1 fraction 1 passed fraction 2 passed fraction 3 after 6 h reaction.Analysis of the 3rd distillation fraction showed depletion of tert butanol to 2.9 wt. and of nitromethane to 0.8 wt. Comparative example 2 1,1,1 trichloroethane with wt. 1, 4 dioxane 1 tert butanol 5 butylene oxide 0.5Results of BAM test BAM 1 reaction after 10 h BAM 2 passedBAM 3 reaction after 14 hComparative example 3 1,1,1 trichioroethane with wt. 1, 4 dioxane 5 nitromethane 1 butylene oxide 0.5Results of BAM test BPM 1 passedBAM 2 passedBAM 3 passedBAM 1 fraction 1 reaction after 4 h.Analysis of the 1st distillation fraction showed depletion of dioxane to 2.5 wt. and augmentation of nitrarethane to 1.3 wt.Comparative example 4 1,l,l trichloroethane with wt.tert butanol 3.3 1,4 dioxane 1.7 nitromethane 0.5 diisoprcpylamine 0.03 Results of BAM test BAM 1 passedBAM 2 passedBAM 3 reaction after 10 h Comparative example 5 1,1, 1 trichloroethane with wt. tert butanol 3.3 1,4 dioxane 1.7 nitromethane 0.3 butylene oxide 0.5Results of BAM test BAM 1 passedBAM 2 passed ml 3 reaction after 6 hExample 1 1,1,1 trichloroethane with wt.tert butanol 3.7 1,4 dioxane 1.8 1,2 butylene oxide 0.5 nitromethane 0.6 diisopropylamine 0.02Results of BAM test BAM 1 passedBAM 2 passedBAM 3 passedBAM 1 fraction 1 passed fraction 2 passed fraction 3 passed Example 2 1,1,1 trichloroethane with wt.tert butanol 3.7 1,4 dioxane 1.8 1,2 butylene oxide 0.2 cyclohexene oxide 0.3 nitromethane 0.6 triethylamine 0.03Results of BAM testBAM 1 passedBAM 2 passed ml 3 passedBAM 1 fraction 1 passed fraction 2 passed fraction 3 passed