# Process for removing 1 sulfonyl groups from benzimidazoles.

## Abstract
This invention concerns a process for removing a sulfonyl group from the 1 position of a benzimidazole to allow conversion of 2 amino 1,5 substituted benzimidazole compounds into 2 amino 1,6 substituted benzimidazole compounds. The 5 isomer is reacted with an alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate in an inert aqueous organic solvent system. The reaction mixture is acidified to precipitate the base and form the intermediate benzimidazole tautomer. The intermediate is then reacted with a sulfonyl acylating agent or a haloalkyl isothiocyanate to form a mixture of 2 amino 1,5 6 substituted benzimidazole compounds. This invention also concerns the process for removing a sulfonyl group from the 1 position of a benzimidazole to allow conversion of 2 amino 1,6 substituted benzimidazole compounds into 2 amino 1,5 substituted benzimidazole compounds.

## Claims
CLAY 15 1. A process for preparing a 2 amino5 6 substituted benzimidazole of the formulaEMI21.1 wherein R3 is C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, halo, nitro,C1 C4 alkylthio, phenylthio, phenoxy, carboxy, methylsulfonyl, trifluoromethyl,EMI21.2 orEMI21.3 R4 is hydrogen, C1 C7 alkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl methyl, 1 C3 C7 cycloalkyl ethyl, thienyl, benzyl, phenyl, or mono substituted phenyl wherein said phenyl substituent is C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, chloro, bromo, iodo, nitro, or trifluoromethyl R6 is hydrogen, C1 C7 alkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl methyl, 1 C3 C7 cycloalkyl ethyl, phenyl, or mono substituted phenyl, wherein said phenyl substituent is C1 C4 alkyl, C1 Ct alkoxy, chloro, bromo, iodo, nitro, or trifluoromethyl R7 and R8 independently are hydrogen, halo, cyano, hydroxymethyl, nitro, qEMI21.4 9C1 C4 alkyl, CH2R COR , phenyl or mono substituted phenyl, wherein said phenyl substituent is C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, chloro, bromo, iodo, nitro, or trifluoromethyl R9 is hydroxy, C1 C4 alkoxy, halo, C3 C6 cycloalkyl C1 C4 alkoxy, or O C1 C4 alkyl NR10R11 p wherein R10 and Rll independently are hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl Z is oxygen, C1 C7 alkylidene, or C1 C4 alkoxyimino Y is hydrogen, and W is hydroxy, or togetherY and W form a bond m is 0, 1, or 2 p is 0 or 1 M is an alkali metal cation or a hydronium ion which comprises reacting a l sulfonyl 2 amino 5 6 substituted benzimidazole of the formulaEMI22.1 wherein R3 is defined as above R is C1 C5 alkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl, phenyl, furyl, or thienyl with an alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate, in an inert aqueous organic solvent system, at a temperature from about 200C to about 1000C. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the alkali metal hydroxide is sodium hydroxide. 3. The process of Claim 1 or 2 wherein the aqueous organic solvent system is acetone. 4. The process of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the temperature is reflux. 5. The process of Claim 1 wherein R3 isEMI23.1 where R4 is phenyl and Z is oxygen. 6. The process of Claim 1 wherein R isEMI23.2 where Y and W are a bond. 7. The process of Claim 6 wherein R6is phenyl. 8. The process of Claim 1 wherein R3is EMI23.3 where Z is C1 C7 alkylidene. 9. The process of Claim 8 wherein Z is ethylidene. 10. The process of Claim 8 or 9 wherein R is phenyl.

## Description
PROCESS FOR REMOVING 1 SULFONYL GROUPS FROM BENZIMIDAZOLES This invention concerns a process for removing a sulfonyl group from the l position of a benzimidazole to allow conversion of the 5 isomer into the 6 isomer and also conversion of the 6 isomer into the 5 isomer. 2 Amino l , 5 6 substituted benzimidazole compounds inhibit the growth of certain viruses, such as rhinoviruses, polio types I, II, III , Coxsackie A9, A21, B5 , echo virus strains 1, 2, 3, 4 , andMengo virus. Although both the 5 and 6 isomers are useful as antiviral agents, the 6 substituted 2 amino benzzzidazole is generally the more active isomer. Certain sulfonylbenzimidazole compounds are disclosed in U.S. Patents 4,118,742 and 4,174,454. The preparation of these reference compounds follows the methods disclosed in U.S. Patents 4,013,790 and 4,118,573.Both of these patents reveal the reaction of a benzimidazole compound and a sulfonyl chloride compound in an organic solvent in the presence of a base. Thiazolinyl and thiazinyl benzimidazole compounds are prepared by the reaction of a l unsubstituted benzimidazole with a haloalkyl isothiocyanate in an organic solvent in the presence of a base, as described in U.S. Patents 4,008,243 and 4,150,028. The references also discuss the compounds use as antiviral agents. Charles Price and Robert Reitsema in SomeSulfonamide Derivatives of 2 Aminobenzimidazole, Journal of Organic Chemistry, 12, 269 274 1947 describe the formation of 2 aminobenzimidazole 3nitrobenzenesulfonate by treating l 3 nitrophenylsulfonyl 2 aminobenzimidazole with sodium hydroxide and acetic acid. This invention concerns a process for removing a sulfonyl group from the l position of a benzimidazole to allow conversion of 2 amino 1,5 substitutedbenzimidazole compounds into a mixture of 5 and 6substituted isomers, from which the preferred 6 isomer is recovered. The 5 isomer also formed then can be recycled through this process to form more 5 and 6 isomers. This invention also discloses the same process for removing a sulfonyl group from the 1position of a benzimidazole to allow conversion of the 6 isomer into the 5 isomer. This process concerns preparing a 2 amino 5 6 substituted benzimidazole of the formulaEMI2.1 wherein R3 is C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, halo, nitro, C1 C4 alkylthio, phenylthio, phenoxy, carboxy, methylsulfonyl, trifluoromethyl,EMI2.2 orEMI2.3 R4 is hydrogen, C1 C7 alkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl methyl, 1 C3 C7 cycloalkyl ethyl, thienyl, benzyl, phenyl, or mono substituted phenyl wherein said phenyl substituent is C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, chloro, bromo, iodo, nitro, or trifluoromethyl R6 is hydrogen, C1 C7 alkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl methyl, l C3 C7 cycloalkyl ethyl, phenyl, or mono substituted phenyl, wherein said phenyl substituent is C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, chloro, bromo, iodo, nitro, or trifluoromethyl R7 and R8 independently are hydrogen, halo, cyano, hydroxymethyl, nitro,EMI3.1 alkyl, CH2R9, COR , phenyl or mono substituted phenyl, wherein said phenyl substituent is C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, chloro, bromo, iodo, nitro, or trifluoromethyl 9 is hydroxy, C1 C4 alkoxy, halo, C3 C6 cycloalkyl C1 C4 alkoxy, or O C1 C4 alkyl p NR10R11 wherein R10 and R11 independently are hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl Z is oxygen, C1 C7 alkylidene, or C1 C4 alkoxyimino Y is hydrogen, and W is hydroxy, or togetherY and W form a bond m is 0, 1, or 2 p is 0 or 1 M is an alkali metal cation or a hydronium ion which comprises reacting a l sulfonyl 2 amino 5 6 substituted benzimidazole of the formula EMI4.1 wherein R3 is defined as above R is C1 C5 alkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl, phenyl, furyl, or thienyl with an alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate, in an inert aqueous organic solvent system, at a temperature from about 200C to about 1000C. The 5 and 6 isomer starting material is represented by formula II above. A l substituted 2 amino 5 substituted benzimidazole of formulaEMI4.2 wherein R and R3 are defined as before is reacted by the above process using an alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate in an inert aqueous organic solvent system to form a tautomeric benzimidazole of formula EMI5.1 wherein R3 and M are defined as before. When desired, the tautomer IA then can be reacted with a sulfonyl halide of the formula RlSO2X or a haloalkyl isothiocyanate of the formula X CH2 nNCS, optionally substituted on the carbon chain withR5 to form a mixture of 5 and 6 isomers. This process is described in our copending application Agents reference No. X 5091 , a copy of which is enclosed herewith.The compounds of formula I above are therefore useful as intermediates. The desired 2 amino 1,6 substituted benzimidazole is of formulaEMI5.2 wherein R3 is defined as before and Rê is RÚSO2 orEMI5.3 wherein n is defined as before R1 is C1 C5 alkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl, phenyl, furyl, or thienyl R5 is hydrogen, C1 C3 alkyl, benzyl, or phenyl. Thus, the compounds of formula III are formed from the products of formula I. A l substituted 2 amino 6 substitutedbenzimidazole of formulaEMI6.1 wherein R and R3 are defined as before is reacted by the process of this invention using an alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate in an inert aqueous organic solvent system to form a tautomeric benzimidazole of formulaEMI6.2 wherein R3 and M are defined as before. The tautomer IB then can be reacted, in a manner analogous to that for formula IA, with a sulfonyl halide of the formula R1SO2X or a haloalkyl isothiocyanate of the formula X CH2 nNCS, optionally substituted on the carbon chain with R5 to form a mixture of 5 and 6 isomers. The desired 2 amino 1,5 substituted benzimidazole is of formula EMI7.1 wherein R2 and R3 are defined as before. The following definitions refer to the various terms used throughout this disclosure. The term furyl refers to the furan radical attached at the alpha or beta position. The term thienyl refers to the thiophene radical attached at the 2 or 3position. The term ,thiazolinyl or thiazolin 2 yl refers to the 4,5 dihydrothiazole radical attached at the 2 position, which may have a substituent group R5 at the 4 or 5 positions. The term thiazinyl or thiazin 2 yl refers to 5,6 dihydro 4H 1,3 thiazine radical attached at the 2 position, which may have a substituent group R5 at the 4 , 5 , or 6 positions. The substituent group R5 can be methyl, ethyl, propyl, benzyl, or phenyl. The term C1 C7 alkyl refers to the straight and branched aliphatic radicals of one to seven carbon atoms including methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec butyl, tert butyl, pentyl, isopentyl, sec pentyl, 1,2 dimethylpropyl, l,l dimethyl propyl, neopentyl, hexyl, isohexyl 4 methylpentyl , sec hexyl l methylpentyl , 2 methylpentyl, 3 methylpentyl, 1,1 dimethylbutyl, 2 ,2 dimethylbutyl, 3,3 dimethylbutyl, 1,2 dimethylbutyl, 1,3 dimethylbutyl, 1,2 ,2 trimethylpropyl, 1,1 ,2 trimethylpropyl, heptyl, isoheptyl 5 methylhexyl , sec heptyl l methylhexyl , l ethylpentyl, 2,2 dimethylpentyl, 3,3 dimethylpentyl, 4,4 dimethylpentyl, 1,2 dimethylpentyl, 1,4 dimethyl pentyl, 1,2,3 trimethylbutyl, 1,1,2 trimethylbutyl, 1,1,3 trimethylbutyl, and others. The term C1 C7 alkyl includes within its definition the terms C1 C3 alkyl, C1 C4 alkyl, and C1 C5 alkyl. The term C3 C7 cycloalkyl refers to the saturated alicyclic rings of three to seven carbon atoms, such as cyclopropyl, methylcyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, 1 , 2 , 3 , or 4methylcyclohexyl, and cycloheptyl. The term C1 C4 alkoxy refers to the alkyl radicals of one to four carbon atoms attached to the remainder of the molecule by oxygen and includes methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy and butoxy.The termEMI8.1 alkyl refers to alkyl radicals of one to four carbon atoms attached to a thio, sulfinyl, or sulfonyl group. Examples of such groups include methylthio, ethylthio, isobutylthio, ethylsulfinyl, isobutylsulfinyl, isopropylsulfonyl, n butylsulfonyl, and tert butylsulfonyl. The term C1 C7 alkylidene refers to divalent organic radicals of one to seven carbon atoms derived from the corresponding aliphatic hydrocarbons in which two hydrogen atoms are taken from the same carbon atom including ethylidene, propylidene, butylidene, pentylidene, and others. The terms halo and halide refer to chloro, bromo, chloride, and bromide. The term alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate refers to sodium or potassium hydroxide, sodium or potassium carbonate, and the like. The base of choice is sodium hydroxide. Any amount of base can be used but for maximum yield one equivalent of base for every equivalent of benzimidazole is preferred. The symbol M refers to a hydronium ion or an alkali metal cation, which is the cation of the inorganic base used to remove the sulfonyl group at the 1 position. Therefore, M is usually a sodium or potassium cation and is preferably sodium. The inert aqueous organic solvent system is a combination of water and a water miscible solvent. The ratio of water to solvent should be from about 10 90 to about 75 25. A nonhydroxylic solvent one that does not contain hydroxyl groups is required unless the benzimidazole anion is isolated before sulfonation. If the benzimidazole is isolated, then hydroxylic solvents, such as carbinols, can be used. Suitable nonhydroxylic solvents include acetone, dimethoxyethane glyme, DME , tetrahydrofuran THF , tertiary amides, such as N,N dimethyl formamide DMF , and the like. The preferred solvent is acetone. Any mixture of the above solvents may be used in place of a single solvent and the addition of an immiscible solvent is permitted as long as the overall solvent combination is water miscible. The reaction should be carried out at a temperature from about 200C to about 1000C, preferably at the reflux temperature of the solvent system employed. The process can be stopped at the formation of the tautomer of formula I. To form the benzimidazole tautomer, the 5 or 6 isomer is reacted with an alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate in an inert aqueous organic solvent system. Then it can be isolated. If greater than 1 equivalent of hydroxide or carbonate was used to remove the sulfonyl group, the solution containing the benzimidazole tautomer must be acidified to isolate its free base. Obviously, when the tautomer of formula I has been formed, which nitrogen atom is designated as the l position is an equal choice.Thus, the 5 and 6 position of formula I are inter changeable After the sulfonyl group is removed leaving the benzimidazole anion, a substituent then can be added when desired at the l position to form a mixture of 1,5 and 1,6 substituted benzimidazole compounds. Thus the compounds of formula I can serve as intermediates. The new substituent at the I position can be added by two methods. The first method is shown in U.S. Patent 4,008,243. The second method of adding a substituent at the 1 position of the benzimidazole anion is described in our copending application, Agents reference No. x 5091 , a copy of which is enclosed herewith. The product of the addition reaction is a mixture of 1,5 and l,6 substituted benzimidazole compounds, which can be separated and isolated. In those instances where the product precipitates, it may be separated from the reaction mixture by filtration.Alternatively, the reaction mixture may be concentrated to induce crystallizat9on. Or the reaction mixture can be evaporated to dryness and the residue dissolved in a suitable solvent such as acetone or methanol to separate and remove any insoluble material. Then the acetone or methanol solution containing the substituted benzimidazole compound is concentrated to crystallize the product or it is evaporated to give 2 second residue. The second residue is dissolved in a solvent, such as methanol, and the benzimidazole compound is recovered rom the solvent by crstalliza tion. The addition process usually provides about a 1 1 n iture of 1,5 and 1,6 subs. tea benzimidazol2 isomers. The Isomers can be separate bv ractional crystallization or by column chromatography. The 6 isomer usually crystallizes first from a solution of the two isomers. The isomers can be identified by their nuclear magnetic resonance spectra in the phenyl proton region 7.0 to 8.3 ppm . It should be noted that when R7 and R8 in formula I are different, the compounds formed exist as cis and trans isomers. The cis and trans isomers of the benzimidazoles provided herein are represented by the general formulas EMI12.1 Since both the cis and the trans benzimidazoles are potent antiviral agents, they can be utilized in the treatment of viral infections either alone or as a mixture. Isolation of pure cis and pure trans benzimidazoles generally is accomplished by chromatography or by crystallization or fractional crystallization from solvent such as methanol, ethanol, acetone, or the like, The trans E isomers appear slightly more active than the cis Z compounds, and therefore are preferred over the cis Z isomers. The collected 5 or 6 isomer can be recycled through the claimed removal process, if the substituent at the l position is a sulfonyl group. Thiazinyl and thiazolinyl groups cannot be removed by this process, and therefore, cannot be recycled. The preparation of the benzimidazole and sulfonyl halide starting materials for use in the disclosed process is taught in U.S. Patents 4,018,790 and 4,118,573. The preparation of haloalkyl isothiocyanates is taught in U.S. Patent No. 4,008,243. The following examples are illustrative of this invention, but are not to be considered as limitations on it.Example 1 2 amino 5 6 methoximephenylbenzimidazole A slurry of 5.6 g 0.015 moles of 2 amino 6 methoximephenyi 1 isopropylsulfonylbenzimidazole was heated on a steam bath in 50 ml of acetone and 50 ml of water with 16 ml of 1 N sodium hydroxide. The heat was continued to remove the acetone by boiling. An oil developed that would not crystallize, so acetone was added to dissolve the oil in the reaction media. The product was precipitated with water, then filtered, and then washed with water. The yield of product was 3.5 g or 88 . There were the expected mass spectrum ions at m e 266, and 235, while the pKa was 8.88. 66 DMF H2O . The NMR indicated that two isomers were present as indicated by methoxy resonances. The following elemental analysis was obtained Calculated for C15H14N4O7 4 H2O Theory C, 60.60 N, 5.72 N, 18.85. Found C, 60.51 H, 5.42 N, 18.64.Example 2 2 amino 5 6 ethylidenebenzyl benzimidazole A slurry of 4.6 g 0.015 moles of 2 aminol isopropylsulfonyl 6 ethylidenebenzyl benzimidazole was heated in 50 ml of acetone and 50 ml of water with 16 ml of 1 N sodium hydroxide on a steam bath. The heating was continued to remove the acetone. Afterwards the solution was cooled to room temperature with stirring. When the cleavage was complete, the precipitate title compound was filtered and washed with water. The yield was 2.75 g 74 . The mass spectrum showed the expected molecular ion at m e 249, 172 loss of phenyl , 115 representing benzimidazole ring . pH 9.06, pka 6.98 66 DMF H2O . The following elemental analysis was obtained Calculated for C16H15 N3 Theory C, 77.08 H, 6.06 N, 16.85. Found C, 77.33 H, 6.12 N, 16.57. NMR DMSO EMI14.1 tb 6 SEP H s SEP Multiplicity SEP Group tb 1.66 SEP SEP SEP 3 SEP doublet SEP CH CH3 tb 1.83 SEP doublet SEP tb 6.0 SEP 1 SEP doubled SEP quartet SEP CH CH3 tb 6.6 7.6 SEP 8 SEP aromatic tb SEP 2 SEP NH SEP multiplet tb Example 3 trans 2 ammo 5 6 ethylidenebenzyl benzimidazole A slurry of 1 g 0.0028 moles of trans 2 amino l isopropylsulfonyl 6 ethylidenebenzyl benz imidazole was heated in 10 ml of acetone and 10 ml of water with 3 ml of 1 N sodium hydroxide on a steam bath. The heating was continued to remove the acetone.Afterwards the solution was cooled to room temperature with stirring. When the cleavage was complete, the precipitate title compound was filtered and washed with water. The yield was 330 mg. 47 and the mass spectrum showed the expected molecular ion at m e 249, 172 loss of phenyl , 115 representing benzimidazole ring . pH 8.61, pKa 7.05 66 DMF H2O . The following elemental analysis was obtained Calculated for C16 H15N3 Theory C, 77.08 H, 6.06 N, 16,85. Found C, 76.82 H, 6.13 N, 16.63. NMR DMSO o H s Multiplicity Group 1.66 3 doublet CH CH3 6.0 1 quartet CH C 3 6.2 2 broad singlet NH2 6.6 7.5 8 multiplet aromatic Example 4 2 amino 5 6 benzoylbenzimidazole A slurry of 50 g of 2 amino l isopropylsulfonyl 5 benzoylbenzimidazole was heated in 300 ml of acetone and 500 ml of water with 350 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide on a steam bath for two hours. The heating was continued to remove the acetone. Afterwards the solution was cooled to room temperature with stirring.When the cleavage was complete, the precipitate title compound was filtered and washed with water. m e 237 , 160, 105, 77. NMR DMSO 6 H s Multiplicity 6.8 3 broad singlet 7.2 8.2 8 multipletExample 5 2 amino S E propanoyl benzimidazole A slurry of 1 g 0.003 moles of 2 aminol isopropylsulfonyl 6 propanoylbenzimidazole was heated in 10 ml of water and 10 ml of acetone with 4 ml of 1 N sodium hydroxide on a steam bath for about 4 hours. After the acetone was boiled off, the solution was diluted with water and neutralized. The precipitate was extracted with ethyl acetate, then dried with magnesium sulfate, and concentrated in vacuo. The yield was 320 mg 56 and the mass spectrum showed the expected molecular ions at m e 189 and 160. The NMR spectrum was consistent with the structure. Example 6 2 amino 5 6 methylidenebenzyl benzimidazole A slurry of 5.1 g 0.015 mole of 2 aminol isopropylsulfonyl 6 methylidenebenzyl benzimidazole was heated in 50 ml of acetone and 50 ml of water with 16 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide on a steam bath. After the acetone was boiled off, the solution was cooled to room temperature with stirring. When the cleavage was complete, the precipitate title compound was filtered and washed with water. The yield was 3.25 g 92 and the mass spectrum showed the expected molecular ion at m e 235. pH 8.98, PKa 6.8 66 DMF H2O . The following elemental analysis was obtained Calculated for C15H13N3 Theory C, 76.57 H, 5.57 N, 17.86. Found C, 76.86 H, 5.91 N, 17.66. NMR DMSO 6 H s Multiplicity Group 5.4 2 doubled doublet CH2 6.4 3 broad singlet 6.8 7.5 8 aromatic multipletExample 7 2 amino 5 6 benzoylbenzimidazole A slurry of 2.5 g 0.0075 moles of 2 amino l isopropylsulfonyl S 6 benzoylbenzimidazole was heated in 25 ml of water and 25 ml of acetone with 16 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide until complete solution of the reactants occurred. To the solution was added 0.9 ml 0.01 moles of methyl chloroformate. The reaction mixture was then heated in a steam bath until the acetone boiled off. The resultant precipitate was filtered to provide 1.43 g of the product. pH 9.85,PKa 5.65, 13.0. m e 237, 160, 105, 77. NMR DMSO 6 H s Multiplicity 6.8 3 broad singlet 7.2 8.2 8 multipletExample 8 2 amino 5 6 benzoylbenzimidazole The procedure of Example 7 was repeated using the same quantities of materials, but the reaction mixture was not heated and only allowed to stand at room temperature overnight 16 hours . The mixture was diluted with water and the precipitate collected to yield 1.39 g 73 of the product. An NMR and mass spectra identical with Example 7 were obtained. pH 9.8, pK 5.7, 13.15. 66 DMF H2O The following elemental analysis was obtained Calculated for C14HllN3O Theory C, 70.87 H, 4.67 N, 17.71. Found C, 71.15 H, 4.95 N, 17.74. Example 9 2 amino 5 6 benzoylbenzimidazole A slurry of 5 g 0.015 moles of 2 amino l isopropyl sulfonyl 5 6 benzoylbenzimidazole in 50 ml of water and 50 ml of tetrahydrofuran with 18 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide was heated on a steam bath. After a complete solution was formed, the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and 1N hydrochloric acid was added. The solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was titurated with methanol water. The white solid was filtered and TLC ethyl acetate indicated the desired product. Yield 2.36 g 66 . m e 237, 160, 105, 77. pH 7.2, PKa 5.6, 13.0. 66 DbE H2O . NMR DMSO 6 H s Multiplicity 5.6 2 broad singlet 6.8 1 broad singlet 7.2 8.0 8 multipletExample 10 2 amino 5 6 benzoylbenzimidazole A slurry of 20 g 0.058 moles of 2 amino l isopropylsulfonyl 5 6 benzoylbenzimidazole in 150 ml of water with 70 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide was heated on a steam bath. After one hour 50 ml of acetone was added and heating continued for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was held overnight 16 hours at room tempera ture, then filtered, extracted 3 times with 200 ml of ethyl acetate, washed with brine, treated with carbon, and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was titurated with methanol and TLC ethyl acetate indicated the desired product. Yield 5.2 g. m e 237, 160, 105, 77. pH 8.59, pK 5.41, 12.89. 66 DMF H2O . NMR DMSO 6 H s Multiplicity 6.8 2 broad singlet 7.2 7.8 8 multiplet 11 1 broad singlet