# 1 Alpha,2 alpha 6 beta,7 beta 15 beta,16 beta Trimethylene 3 oxo 17 alpha pregn 4 ene 21,17 carbolactone, its preparation and use as a medicinal agent.

## Abstract
1α,2α 6β,7β 15β,16β trimethylene 3 oxo 17α pregn 4 ene 21,17 carbolactone is prepared from 6β,7β 15β,16β dimethylene 3 oxo 17α pregna 1,4 diene 21,17 carbo lactone with dimethylsulfoxonium methylide, and is used as a medicinal agent with aldosterone antagonistic activity.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. 1 alpha ,2 alpha 6ss,7ss 15ss,16ss trimethylene 3 oxo 17 alpha pregn 4 ene 21,17 carbolactone. 2. A pharmacological composition having aldosterone antagonistic activity comprising an effective amount of 1 alpha ,2 alpha 6ss,7ss 15ss,16ss trimethylene 3 oxo 17 alpha pregn 4 ene 21,17 carbolactone and a phicrm,acologically acceptable carrier. 3. A composition of claim 2 wherein the amount of the carbolactone is 5 50 mg. 4. A method of achieving a diuretic effect in a patient in need of such treatment comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of la,2a 6 ,7 15 , l6 trimethylene 3 oxo l7a pregn 4 ene 21, 17 carbolactone. 5. A method of claim 4 wherein the amount of carbolactone administered is 5 100 mg day. 6. A method of claim 5 wherein the administration is oral.

## Description
la,2a 6B,7B 15B,16B TRIMETHYLENE 3 OXO 17a PREGN 4 ENE 21,17 CARBOLACTONE,ITS PREPARATION AND USE AS A MEDICINAL AGENT The present invention relates to a new pharmacological agent. Summary of the Invention It is an object of this invention to provide a new compound having valuable pharmacological properties. Upon further study of the specification and appended claims, further objects and advantages of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art. These objects have been achieved by providing la,2a 6ss,7ssil5ss,16ss trimethylene 3 oxo 17a pregn 4 ene 21,17 carbolactone. Detailed Discussion The invention furthermore concerns a process for the preparation of 1 alpha ,2 alpha 6ss,7ss 15ss,16ss trimethylene 3 oxo 17 alpha pregn 4 ene 21,17 carbolactone, comprising conventionally introducing a methylene group in the 1,2 position of the corresponding 6ss,7ss 15ss,16ss dimethnlene 3 oxo 17a pregna 1,4 diene 21,17 carbolactone. The introduction of the methylene group in the 1,2 position of 6ss,7ss 15ss,16ss di methylene 3 oxo 17a pregna 1,4 diene 21,17 carbolactone can be accomplished in a manner known per se according to the process by Corey E.J. Corey and M. Chaykovsky, J.Amer. Chem. Soc. 84 867 1962 , whose disclosure is incorporated by reference herein. The starting material is known U.S.P. 4,291,029 . For this purpose, dimethylsulfoxonium methylide is first prepared, e.g., from trimethylsulfoxonium iodide in dimethyl sulfoxide and sodium hydride in mineral oil under an inert gas atmosphere. The starting steroid, dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide, is then added to this reaction solution, and the mixture is reacted. The reaction is completed after 15 20 hours. The reaction mixture is then worked up as usual, e.g., by precipitation, extraction, recrystallization, and or chromatography. The compound of this invention possesses valuable pharmacological properties. It is, inter alia, a diuretic of the aldosterone antagonist type, i.e., it reverses the effect of deoxycorticosterone on the excretion of sodium and potassium. The compound of this invention surprisingly proves to be 3.5 times more effective than the known spironolactone in a test model by Hollmann G. Hollmann et al., Tubulaere Wirkungen und renale Elimination von Spirolactonen Tubular Effects and Renal Elimination of Spirolactones , Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch. Exp. Path. Pharmak.247 419 1964 P. Marx, Renale Wirkungen des d Aldosterons und seines Antagonisten Spironolacton Renal Effects of d Aldosterone and Its Antagonist Spironolactone ,Diss. Med. Fak. FU Berlin 1966 . The compound of this invention is utilized by means of conventional methods of galenic pharmacy for the preparation of medicines for oral and parenteral administration, e.g., to mammals including humans, oral administration being preferred. In the case of human patients, the dosage of the compound of this invention is usually 5 100 mg day.Suitable dosage forms include tablets, dragees, capsules, and similar forms containing, e.g., 5 50 mg of active ingredient. Administration is analogous to that of the conventional diuretic spironolactone. The medical specialties of this invention are prepared in the usual way by converting the active agent into the desired forms of application with suitable additives, e.g., solutions, lotions, ointments, creams, or plasters.In the thus formulated medicines, the concentration of active compound is dependent on the type of application. Conventional excipients are pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic carrier substances suitable for parenteral, enteral or topical application which do not deleteriously react with the active compounds. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include but are not limited to water, salt solutions, alcohols, gum arabic, vegetable oils, polyethylene glycols, gelatine, lactose, amylose, magnesium stearate, talc, silicic acid, viscous paraffin, perfume oil, fatty acid monoglycerides and diglycerides, pentaerythritol fatty acid esters, hydroxymethylcellulose, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, etc.The pharmaceutical preparations can be sterilized and if desired mixed with auxiliary agents, e.g., lubricants, preservatives, stabilizers, wetting agents, emulsifiers, salts for influencing osmotic pressure, buffers, coloring, flavoring and or aromatic substances and the like which do not deleteriously react with the active compounds. For parenteral application, particularly suitable are injectable sterile solutions, preferably oily or aqueous solutions, as well as suspensions, emulsions, or implants, including suppositories. Ampoules are convenient unit dosages. For enteral application, particularly suitable are tablets, dragees, suppositories or capsules having talc and or a carbohydrate carrier of binder or the like, the carrier preferably being lactose and or corn starch and or potato starch. A syrup, elixir or the like can be used wherein a sweetened vehicle is employed. Sustained release compositions can be formulated including those wherein the active compound is protected with differentially degradable coatings, e.g., by microencapsulation, multiple coatings, etc. Without further elaboration, it is believed that one skilled in the art can, using the preceding description, utilize the present invention to its fullest extent.The following preferred specific embodiments are, therefore, to be construed as merely illustrative, and not limitative of the remainder of the disclosure in any way whatsoever. In the following example, all temperatures are set forth uncorrected in degrees Celsius unless otherwise indicated, all parts and percentages are by weight.EXAMPLE 1 A solution of 2.2 g of trimethylsulfoxonium iodide in 35 ml of dimethyl sulfoxide is combined with 393 mg of sodium hydride in the form of a 55 suspension in oil and stirred for one hour under an argon atmosphere. Then, 729 mg of 6ss,7ss 15ss,16ss dimethylene 3 oxo 17a pregna 1,4 diene 21,17 carbolactone is added thereto, agitation is continued under these conditions for 20 hours, the reaction product is subsequently precipitated with sulfuric acidcontaining ice water the precipitate is filtered off and dissolved in dichloromethane. After drying and evaporation, the residue is dissolved in 8.5 ml of tetrahydrofuran and 8.5 ml of methanol, the solution is combined with 0.85 ml of 8 sulfuric acid vol , stirred for 10 minutes, and thereafter diluted with diethyl ether. The organic phase is subsequently washed neutral with water, dried, and evaporated. The residue is recrystallized from acetone diisopropyl ether, yielding 540 mg of la,2a 6 ,7 15 ,l6 tri methylene 3 oxo 17a pregn 4 ene 21,17 carbolactone, mp 261.70C. alpha D23 11 chloroform . UV 258 15,500 methanol . EXAMPLE 2 10.0 mg. of 1t,2 6ss,7ss 15,16ss trimethylene 3 oxo 17a pregn 4 ene 21,17 carbolactone are micronised finely ground and homogeneously mixed with 80,0 mg. lactose DAB German Pharmacopoeia 7 USP XVII , 29.6 mg. microcristallin cellulose, and 0.4 mg. magnesium stearate USP XVII , and com pressed into tablets without previous granulation, these tablets having a weight of 120 mg., with a diameter of about 7 mm. and a thickness of 2.7 2.9 mm. The preceding examples can be repeated with similar success by substituting the generically or specifically described reactants and or operating conditions of this invention for those used in the preceding example. From the foregoing description, one skilled in the art can easily ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention, and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof, can make various changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions.