# New chromium complex dyestuffs, their preparation and use.

## Abstract
The invention relates to asymmetric 1 2 chromium com plexes. The complexes according to the invention are of the general formula These complexes are useful for the dyeing or printing of nitrogenous organic substrates and wood in red shades.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. 1 2 asymmetric chromium complexes of general formula EMI9.1 in which M and M are the same or different and each represent a hydrogen atom or one equivalent of a colourless cation, R1 represents a hydrogen atom or a methyl radical, and R2 represents a phenyl, p tolyl, o , m or p chlorophenyl or 2,5 dichlorophenyl radical. 2. Complexes according to claim 1, in which R1 is a hydrogen atom and R2 is a phenyl radical. 3. Process for the preparation of complexes according to claim 1, characterised in that the 1 1 chromium complex of a monoazo dyestuff of the following formula IT EMI10.1 is condensed with a monoazo dyestuff of the formula III EMI10.2 or, inversely, a monoazo dyestuff of formula II is condensed with the 1 1 chromium complex of a monoazo dyestuff of formula III . 4. Use of the complexes according to claim 1 or 2 to colour natural or synthetic organic substrates. 5. Natural or synthetic organic substrates coloured by means of a complex according to claim 1 or 2.

## Description
NEW CHROMIUM COMPLEX DYESTUFFS THEIR PREPARATTON AND USE This invention relates to new assymetric 1 2 chromium complexes and mixtures thereof, their preparation and their application as red dyestuffs, particularly for dyeing and printing nitrogeneous organic substrates and wood. The chromium complexes according to the invention are of the following general formula EMI1.1 in which M and M are the same or different and each represent a hydrogen atom or one equivalent of a colourless cation, R1 represents a hydrogen atom or a methyl radical, and R2 represents a phenyl, p tolyl, o , m or p chlorophenyl or 2,5 dichlorophenyl radical. The 1 2 chromium complexes of the invention can be obtained from monoazo dyestuffs of the following formulae EMI2.1 where M , R1 and R2 have the same meanings as above. The 1 2 chromium complexes can be obtained from the monoazo dyestuffs by a known process which consists of reacting one of the monoazo dyestuffs, preferably that of formula II , with a trivalent chromium salt in order to convert it into a 1 1 chromium complex, and then condensing this 1 1 complex with the other monoazo dyestuff. The monoazo dyestuffs of formulae II and III may be obtained in a known way by coupling the diazo derivative of l amino 2 hydroxy 6 nitronaphthalene 4 sulphonic acid or 4 nitro 2 aminophenol with the corresponding pyrazolone. The preparation of the 1 1 chromium complex may be performed in accordance with known methods. To prepare the 1 1 chromium complex of a sulphonated monoazo dyestuff of formula II , the dyestuff, in an acidic aqueous medium or in an organic solvent, is contacted with a trivalent chromium salt such as, for example, basic chromium sulphate, chromium fluoride, chromium chloride or chromium formate, at a temperature between 100 and 1450 C. If it is the non sulphonated monoazo dyestuff of formula III which is to be converted into a 1 1 chromium complex, this reaction conveniently takes place in an organic solvent in the presence of a trivalent chromium salt, in particular chromic chloride, at a temperature between 100 and 1300C.Suitable organic solvents are polyols e.g. ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, propylene glycol and their mono and diethers. The condensation reaction between the 1 1 chromium complex and the other monoazo dyestuff may take place in water, in an organic solvent e.g. alcohols, polyols or dimethylformamide or in a mixture of water and organic solvent, at a pH between 4 and 9 and a temperature between 50 and 1100C. It is preferred to operate with a molar ratio of chromium complex to monoazo dyestuff of from 1 to 1.05. The asymmetric 1 2 chromium complexes thus obtained are conveniently isolated as salts, particularly as alkaline salts especially sodium, potassium or ammonium salts or as salts of organic amines e.g. ethanolamines . The chromium complexes of the invention may be made available in the form of a powder, in granular form or as a solution. They are suitable for dyeing and printing a wide range of substances, such as wool, silk, leather, synthetic polyamide or polyurethane fibres and wood, substances on which they are easy to use and give good dyeing performances. The complexes according to the invention and mixtures of them are suitable for dyeing in a slightly alkaline bath, a neutral bath or a slightly acid bath, e.g. in an acetic acid bath. The dyes thus produced are very uniform with good light fastness, wash fastness, and good resistance to fulling, ageing and heat. The following Examples, in which the percentages are by weight and the temperatures in degrees Centigrade, serve to illustrate the invention. Example I A 1 1 chromium complex was prepared from the monoazo dyestuff produced by coupling the diazo derivative of 6 nitro 1 amino2 naphthol 4 sulphonic acid and 1 phenyl 3 methyl 5 pyrazolone.0.1 Mol of the 1 1 chromium complex was suspended in 0.6 litre of water and there was added 0.098 mol of the monoazo dyestuff in paste form obtained by coupling the diazo derivative of 4 nitro 2 aminophenol with 1 phenyl 3 methyl 5 pyrazolone. The volume of suspension thus produced was approx. 750ml. The suspension was heated to 95 1000C and its pH was regulated between 6.5 and 8 by adding dilute sodium carbonate. This temperature was maintained until the dye starting materials could no longer be detected by thin film chromatography, and the pH was then adjusted to 9 9.5 by the addition of dilute sodium carbonate The reaction mixture was cooled to 90 C and 150g of sodium chloride were added. After stirring for 30 minutes, the precipitate that formed was filtered at 75 800C and dried. The mixed chromium complex thus obtained had the following formula EMI4.1 and was in the form of a dark brown powder which disssolved in water giving a reddish shade. The product dyed wool and polyamide in a slightly acid bath to give a red shade with good light fastness and resistance to moisture. Example 2 5g Of a skein or piece of material of previously wetted wool or polyamide was introduced into a dyebath at 40 500C containing 150ml water, 0.25g ammonium sulphate, 0.05g of a levelling agent blend of C16 to C18 fatty amines ethoxylated with 14 to 30 mol. ethylene oxide and 0.05g of the 1 2 complex obtained in Example 1. The pH was adjusted to 5 by means of acetic acid, then the mixture was heated for 45 minutes to boiling and maintained there for 45 minutes. Then Lhe skei o, p CjL of fabric was rinsed and dried. The red shade of colour obtained had good fastness properties especially in respect of light and wetness.Example 3 To print a tubular knitted fabric or bundles of textured polyamide filaments intended for the tufted carpet sector, a padding bath was prepared to impregnate the background and an overprinting paste of the following compositions Padding bath 1 2 complex dyestuff from Example 1 1 g lThickener, 2.5 , derived from guar 100 g lFatty amido alcohol condensate of copra oil and diethylene amine 4 g lAntifoaming agent ethyl hexyl alcohol 1 g l 80 formic acid 5 g lWater at 400C to make up 1 1.Overprinting paste 1 2 complex dyestuff from Example 1 8 gThiodiglycol 20 gUrea 20 gWater at 40 500C 523 gThickener, 2.5 , derived from guar 400 gFatty amido alcohol 8 80 formic acid 20 gEthyl hexyl alcohol 1 kg First the material was padded in the bath and then the paste was overprinted. Without intermediate drying, it was evaporated for 5 minutes at 102 1030C. It was then rinsed, soaped at 400 in the presence of 1 to 2 g l of an emulsion of an anionic surface active agent of the alkylbenzene sulphonate type and perchlorethylene, rinsed again and dried. The following Examples of assymetric 1 2 chromium complexes which may be prepared are also illustrative of the invention. The percentages are by weight and the temperatures in degrees Centigrade.Example 4 0.1 Mol of the 1 1 chromium complex described in Example 1 is suspended in 0.6 litre of water and there is added 0.098 mol of the monoazo dyestuff in paste form obtained by coupling the diazo derivative of 4 nitro 2 aminophenol with 1 p tolyl 3 methyl 5 pyrazolone. The volume of suspension thus produced is approximately 800ml. The suspension is heated to 95 1000C and its pH is regulated to 7. This temperature is maintained until the dye starting materials can no longer be detected by thin film chromatography, and the pH is then adjusted to 8.5 by the addition of dilute sodium carbonate The reaction mixture is cooled to 900C and 150g of sodium chloride are added. After stirring for 30 minutes, the precipitate that forms is filtered at 800C and dried. The mixed chromium complex thus obtained is in the form of a dark brown powder which dyes wool to give a red shade with very good general fastness properties. Examples 5 to 14 By operating as in the previous Examples with the monoazo dyestuffs II and III indicated below, other 1 2 complexes according to the invention may be prepared which dye wool and polyamide to red shades with similar properties.Example 5 Monoazodyestuff of formula II 4 2 hydroxy 6 nitro 4 sulpho 1 azonaphthyl 5 hydroxy 3 methyl l phenylpyrazole. Monoazodyestuff of formula III 5 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxy 5 nitrophenylazo 3 methyl 1 2 chlorophenyl pyrazole.Example 6 Monoazodyestuff of formula II 4 2 hydroxy 6 nitro 4 sulpho 1 azonaphthyl 5 hydroxy 3 methyl1 phenylpyrazole. Monoazodyestuff of formula III 5 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxy 5 nitrophenylazo 3 methyl 1 3 chlorophenyl pyrazole.Example 7 Monoazodyestuff of formula II 4 t 2 hydroxy 6 nitro 4 sulpho 1 azonaphthyli S hydroxy 3 methyl 1 phenylpyrazole. Monoazodyestuff of formula III 5 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxy 5 nitrophenylazo 3 methyl 1 2, 5 dichlorophenyl pyrazole. Example 8 Monoazodyestuff of formula II 4 2 hydroxy 6 nitro 4 sulpho 1 azonaphthyl 5 hydroxy 3 methyl l phenylpyrazole. Monoazodyestuff of formula III 5 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxy 5 nitrophenylazo 3 methyl 1 4 chlorophenyl pyrazole.Example 9 Monoazodyestuff of formula II 4 2 hydroxy 6 nitro 4 sulpho 1 azonaphthyl 5 hydroxy 3 methyl l p tolylpyrazole. Monoazodyestuff of formula III 5 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxy 5 nitrophenylazo 3 methyl 1 4 chlorophenyl pyrazole.Example 10 Monoazodyestuff of formula II 4 2 hydroxy 6 nitro 4 sulpho 1 azonaphthyl 5 hydroxy 3 methyl 1 p tolylpyrazole. Monoazodyestuff of formula III 5 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxy 5 nitrophenylazo 3 methyl 1 3 chlorophenyl pyrazole.Example 11 Monoazodyestuff of formula II 4 2 hydroxy 6 nitro 4 sulpho 1 azonaphthyl 5 hydroxy 3 methyl 1 tolylpyrazole. Monoazodyestuff of formula III 5 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxy 5 nitrophenylazo 3 methyl 1 2 chlorophenyl pyrazole.Example 12 Monoazodyestuff of formula II 4 2 hydroxy 6 nitro 4 sulpho 1 azonaphthyl 5 hydroxy 3 methyl 1 p tolylpyrazole. Monoazodyestuff of formula III 5 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxy 5 nitrophenylazo 3 methyl 1 2,5 dichlorophenyl pyrazole.Example 13 Monoazodyestuff of formula II 4 2 hydroxy 6 nitro 4 stllpho 1 azonaphthyl 5 hydroxy 3 methyl l p tolylpyrazole. Monoazodyestuff of formula III 5 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxy 5 nitrophenylazo 3 methyl 1 p tolylpyrazole.Example 14 Monoazodyestuff of formula II 4 2 hydroxy 6 nitro 4 sulpho 1 azonaphthyl 5 hydroxy 3 methyl l p tolylpyrazole. Monoazodyestuff of formula III 5 hydroxy 4 2 hydroxy 5 nitrophenylazo 3 methyl 1 phenylpyrazole.