# Cloning vectors.

## Abstract
There is described a recombinant DNA cloning vector useful in Streptomyces and E. coli, comprising a a functional origin of replication containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 , b a restriction fragment comprising an E. coli origin of replication, c one or more DNA segments that confer resistance to at least one antibiotic when transformed into a cell of E. coli, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is conferred, and d one or more DNA segments that independently confer either or both of the Strptomyces tra function or resistance to at least one antibiotic when transformed into a cell of Streptomyces, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is conferred. Transformants and a method for detecting transformants of the vector are also disclosed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A recombinant DNA cloning vector comprising a a functional origin of replication containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 , b a restriction fragment comprising an E. coli origin of replication, c one or more DNA segments that confer resistance to at least one antibiotic when transformed into a cell of E. coli, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which re sistance is conferred, and d one or more DNA segments that independently confer either or both of the Strepto myces tra function or resistance to at least one antibiotic when transformed into a cell of Stretomyces, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is con ferred. 2. The vector of Claim 1 which is a plasmid. 3. The vector of Claim 1 or 2 wherein the restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 is the 5.4kb EcoRI SalI fragment, z6.Okb SalI fragment, 19kb EcoRI HindIII fragment, or 31kb EcoRI fragment. 4. The vector of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein theE. coli origin of replication is the pBR322 origin of replication, pBR324 origin of replication, pBR325 origin of replication, pBR327 origin of replication, or pBR328 origin of replication. 5. The vector of any of Claims 1 to 4 wherein the one or more DNA segments that confer resistance in E. coli are DNA segments that confer resistance to ampicillin, chloramphenicol or tetracycline. 6. The vector of any of Claims 1 to 5 wherein the one or more DNA segments that confer resistance in Streptomyces are DNA segments that confer resistance to neomycin or thiostrepton. 7. The vector of Claim 6 which is plasmid pJL180, pJL181, pJL125, pJLl90, pJL192, pJL195, pJL199, pJL122, pJL123, pJL124, pJL126, pJL176, pJL1200, pJL1201, pJL1020, pJL1203, pJL1204, pJL1205, pJL1206, pJL1706, pJL1800, pJL1801, pJL1900, pJL1902, pJL1905, pJL193, pJL196, pJL197, pJL198, pHJL212, pHJL213, or pJL1907. 8. The vector of any of Claims 1 to 7 wherein the DNA segment that confers resistance to an antibiotic is the 7.7kb EcoRI HindIII restriction fragment of plasmid pJL192, the r 7.7kb EcoRI HindIII restriction fragment of plasmid pLR4, the 7.5kbEcoRI partial SalI restriction fragment of plasmid pLR4, the 1.35kb BamHI restriction fragment of plasmid pLR2, or the 1kb BclI restriction fragment of plasmid pJL193. 9. The vector of Claim 8 which is a plasmid pJLl90 or pJL195 high resistance mutant that in Streptomyces confers resistance to neomycin at levels of at least 10 g. ml. 10. Plasmid pJL114. 11. Plasmid pJL120. 12. Plasmid pJL121. 13. Plasmid pJL192. 14. Plasmid pJL193. 15. Plasmid pJL197. 16. Plasmid pJLl98. 17. Plasmid pHJL212. 18. Plasmid pHJL213. 19. A transformed host cell comprising the recombinant DNA cloning vector of any of Claims 1 to 18. 20. The host cell of Claim 19 which isStreptomyces, preferably of species lividans, griseofuscus, fradiae, or ambofaciens. 21. The host cell of Claim 19 which is E. coli K12. 22. A restriction fragment comprising the plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 5.4kb EcoRI SalI or 6.0kb SalI restriction fragment of Claim 3. 23. A restriction fragment comprising the plasmid pJL192 7.7kb EcoRI HindIII restriction fragment of Claim 8. 24. A process for preparing a recombinant DNA cloning vector which comprises ligating a functional origin of replication containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 and one or more DNA sequences comprising a a restriction fragment comprising an E. coli origin of replication, b one or more DNA segments that confer resis tance to at least one antibiotic when trans formed into a cell of E. coli, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is conferred, and c one or more DNA segments that independently confer either or both of the Streptomyces tra function or resistance to at least one antibiotic when transformed into a cell of Streptomyces, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is con ferred. 25. The process of Claim 24 wherein the restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 is the z5.4kb EcoRI SalI fragment, 6.Okb SalI fragment, 19kb EdoRI indIII fragment, or 31kb EcoRI fragment and wherein the E. coli origin of replication is the pBR322 origin of replication, pBR324 origin of replication, pBR325 origin of replication, pBR327 origin of replication, or pBR328 origin of replication, and wherein the one or more DNA segments that confer resistance in E. coli are DNA segments that confer resistance to ampicillin, chloramphenicol or tetracycline and wherein the one or more DNA segments that confer resistance in Streptomyces are DNA segments that confer resistance to neomycin or thiostrepton. 26. A method for detecting transformants comprising 1 mixing Streptomyces cells, under transforming conditions, with a recombinant DNA cloning vector, said vector comprising a an origin of replication and P gene containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 , and b a non lethal DNA sequence cloned into the EcoRI restriction site of said P gene, and 2 growing said Streptomyces cells on a lawn of an indicator Streptomyces strain and select ing colonies that show the M pock phenotype. 27. The method of Claim 26 wherein the restriction fragment comprising the origin of replication and the P gene is of plasmid SCP2 . 28. The method of Claim 26 or 27 wherein theStreptomyces cells and indicator strain are preferably of species lividans, griseofuscus, fradiae or ambofaciens. 29. The method of Claim 26, 27 or 28 wherein the recombinant DNA cloning vector is plasmid pJL120, pJL121, pJL125, pJL190, pJL192, pJL195, pJL197, pJL198, pHJL212, or pHJL213. CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing a recombinant DNA cloning vector which comprises ligating a functional origin of replication containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 and one or more DNA sequences comprising a a restriction fragment comprising an E. coli origin of replication, b one or more DNA segments that confer resis tance to at least one antibiotic when trans formed into a cell of E. coli, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is conferred, and c one or more DNA segments that independently confer either or both of the Streptomyces tra function or resistance to at least one antibiotic when transformed into a cell of Streptomyces, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is con ferred 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 is the 5.4kb EcoRI SalI fragment, 6.Okb SalI fragment, 319kb EcoRI HindIII fragment, or z31kb EcoRI fragment. 3. The process of Claim 1 or 2 wherein theE. coli origin of replication is the pBR322 origin of replication, pBR324 origin of replication, pBR325 origin of replication, pBR327 origin of replication, or pBR328 origin of replication. 4. The process of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the one or more DNA segments that confer resistance inE. coli are DNA segments that confer resistance to ampicillin, chloramphenicol or tetracycline. 5. The process of any of Claims 1 to 4 wherein the one or more DNA segments that confer resistance in Streptomyces are DNA segments that confer resistance to neomycin or thiostrepton. 6. The process of any of Claims 1 to 5 wherein the DNA segment that confers resistance to an antibiotic is the 7.7kb EcoRI HindIII restriction fragment of plasmid pJL192, the 7.7kb EcoRI HindIII restriction fragment of plasmid pLR4, the 7.5kb EcoRI partial SalI restriction fragment of plasmid pLR4, the 1.35kb BamHI restriction fragment of plasmid pLR2, or the 1kb BclI restriction fragment of plasmid pJL193. 7. The process of any of Claims 1 to 6 for preparing plasmid pJL180, pJL181, pJL125, pJL190, pJL192, pJL195, pJLl99, pJL122, pJL123, pJL124, pJL126, pJL176, pJL1200, pJL1201, pJL1020, pJL1203, pJL1204, pJL1205, pJL1206, pJL1706, pJL1800, pJL1801, pJL1900, pJL1902, pJL1905, pJL193, pJL196, pJL197, pJL198, pHJL212, pHL213, or pJL1907. 8. The process of any of Claims 1 to 5 for preparing plasmid pJL120 and pJL121 which comprises ligating the EcoRI digests of plasmids SCP and pBR325. 9. The process of any of Claims 1 to 5 for preparing plasmid pJL180 and pJL181 which comprises ligating the 6.0kb SalI digest of plasmid SC to theSalI digest of pBR325. 10. The process of Claim 8 for preparing plasmid pJL125 which comprises self ligating a partialSalI digest of plasmid pJL121. 11. The process of Claim 8 for preparing plasmid pJL190 which comprises ligating the 19.0kb EcoRI HindIII digest of plasmid pJL121 to the z7.7kb EcoRI HindIII fragment of plasmid pLR4. 12. The process of Claim 11 for isolating plasmid pJL192 which comprises selecting and testingStreptomyces cells, preferably of species griseofuscus, transformed with plasmid pJLl90 for high neomycin resistance, and isolating plasmid pJL192 from the resistant cells. 13. The process of Claim 10 for preparing plasmid pJL195 which comprises ligating the 5.4kb EcoRI SalI fragment of plasmid pJL125 to the 7.5kb EcoRI partial SalI fragment of plasmid pLR4. 14. The process of Claim 13 for isolating plasmid pJLl99 which comprises selecting and testingStreptomyces cells, preferably of species griseofuscus, transformed with plasmid pJL195 for high neomycin resistance and isolating plasmid pJL199 from the resistant cells. 15. The process of any of Claims 1 to 5 for preparing plasmid pJL114 which comprises ligating the partial BamHI digest of plasmid SCP2 to the 4.4kb BamHI fragment of plasmid pBR322. 16. The process of any of Claims 1 to 5 for preparing plasmid pJL193 which comprises ligating the BamHI digest of plasmid pBR328 to the 1.35kb restriction fragment of plasmid pLR2. 17. The process of any of Claims 1 to 5 for preparing plasmid pJL196 which comprises ligating the 7.5kb EcoRI partial SaIl digest of plasmid pJL192 to the 5.4kb EcoRI SalI restriction fragment of plasmid pJL125. 18. The process of any of Claims 1 to 5 for preparing plasmids pJL197 and pJL198 which comprises ligating the 1kb BclI restriction fragment of plasmid pJL193 to the partial BamHI digest of plasmid pJL196. 19. The process of any of Claims 1 to 5 for preparing plasmids pHJL212 and pHJL213 which comprises ligating the 1kb BclI restriction fragment of plasmid pJL193 to the partial BamHI digest of plasmid pJL195. 20. A transformed host cell comprising a recombinant DNA cloning vector prepared in accordance with any of Claims 1 to 19. 21. The host cell of Claim 20 which isStreptomyces, preferably of species lividans, griseofuscus, fradiae, or ambofaciens. 22. The host cell of Claim 20 which is E. cqli K12. 23. A method for detecting transformants comprising 1 mixing Streptomyces cells, under transform ing conditions, with a recombinant DNA clon ing vector, said vector comprising a an origin of replication and P gene containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 , and b a non lethal DNA sequence cloned into the EcoRI restriction site of said P gene, and 2 growing said Streptomyces cells on a lawn of an indicator Streptomyces strain and select ing colonies that show the M pock phenotype. 24. The method of Claim 23 wherein the restriction fragment comprising the origin of replication and the P gene is of plasmid SCP2 . 25. The method of Claim 23 or 24 wherein theStreptomyces cells and indicator strain are preferably of species lividans, griseofuscus, fradiae or ambofaciens. 26. The method of Claim 23, 24 or 25 wherein the recombinant DNA cloning vector is plasmid pJL120, pJL121, pJL125, pJLl90, pJL192, pJLl95, pJL197, pJL198, pHJL212, or pHJL213.

## Description
CLONING VECTORS The present invention relates to selectable novel ecombinant DNA cloning vectors comprising a functional origin of replication containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 and a functional origin of replication containing and antibiotic resistance conferring restriction fragment of a plasmid that is functional in E. coli. The invention also relates to transformants and a method for detecting transformants of the aforementioned vectors The vectors to which this invention relates are particularly useful because they are small, versatile, and can be transformed and selected in Streptomyces orE. coli. Sine over half of the clinically important antibiotics are produced by Streptomyces strains, it is desirable to develop cloning systems and vectors that are applicable to that industrially important group.Such vectors allow for the cloning of genes into Streptomyces both for increasing the yields of known antibiotics as well as for the production of new antibiotics and antibiotic derivatives. The method of the present invention provides for the convenient selection of transformants. Since transformation is a very low frequency event, such a functional test is a practical necessity for deter fining which cell s , of among the millions of cells, has acquired the plasmid DNA. This is important because DNA sequences that are non selectable can We inserted into the vectors and, upon transformation, cells containing the vector and the particular DNA sequence of interest can be isolated by appropriate phenotypic selection. For purposes of the present invention as disclosed and claimed herein, the following terms are as defined below. Plasmid pLRl or pLR4 3.4kb BamHI RestrictionFragment the same 3.4kb BamHI neomycin resistanceconferring fragment contained in plasmid pIJ2. AmpR the ampicillin resistant phenotype. Amp AmpS the ampicillin sensitive phenotype. TetR the tetracycline resistant phenotype. TetS the tetracycline sensitive phenotype. CMR the chloramphenicol resistant phenotype. CMS the chl oramphenicol sensitive phenotype. NeoR the neomycin resistant phenotype. NeoS the neomycin sensitive phenotype. ThioR the thiostrepton resistant phenotype. ThioS the thiostreptqn sensitive phenotype. NeoR, Neo5, This, and This refer only to results of tests in Streptomyces as used in this disclosure. AmpR, AmpS, TetR, TetS, CmR and CmS refer only to results of tests in E. coli as used in this disclosure. The present invention specifically relates to recombinant DNA cloning vectors comprising a , a functional origin of replication containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 , b a restriction fragment comprising an E. coli origin of replication, c one or more DNA segments that confer resis tance to at least one antibiotic when trans formed into a cell of E. coli, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is conferred, and d one or more DNA segments that independently confer either or both of the Streptomyces tra function or resistance to at least one antibiotic when transformed into a cell of Streptomyces, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is conferred. The recombinant DNA cloning vectors are made by a process which comprises ligating a functional origin of replication containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 and one or more DNA sequences comprising a a restriction fragment comprising an E. coli origin of replication, b one or more DNA segments that confer resis tance to at least one antibiotic when trans formed into a cell of E. coli, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is conferred, and c one or more DNA segments that independently confer either or both of the Streptomyces tra function or resistance to at least one antibiotic when transformed into a cell of Streptomyces, said cell being sensitive to the antibiotic for which resistance is con ferred. The invention further comprises transformants and a method for detecting transformants of the aforementioned vectors comprising 1 mixing Streptomyces cells, under transform ing conditions, with a recombinant DNA clon ing vector, said vector comprising a an origin of replication and P gene containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 , and b a non lethal DNA sequence cloned into the EcoRI restriction site of said P gene, and 2 growing said Streptomyces cells on a lawn of an indicator Streptomyces strain and select ing colonies that show the M pock phenotype. The vectors of the present invention are best constructed by ligating an origin of replicationcontaining and Streptomyces tra function conferring restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 into anE. coli origin of replication containing and antibiotic resistance conferring restriction fragment of an E.coli plasmid. Plasmids SCP2 and SCP2 , from which origins of replication are constructed, are each 3lkb and show similar restriction patterns. Plasmid SCP2 arose as a spontaneous mutant of plasmid SCP2 and codes for a selectable colony pock morphology. Although the pock is distinguishable from that of plasmid SCP2, in other ways plasmids SCP2 and SCP2 are virtually identical. Since the present disclosure teaches that the Streptomyces tra function and the origin of replication of plasmids SCP2 and SCP2 are within their respective 5.4kb EcoRI SalI restriction fragments, a variety of different origin of replication containing and Streptomyces tra function conferring fragments can be generated. This is accomplished by digestion with restriction enzymes that cut outside the 5.4kb EcoRI SalI region. A detailed restriction site map of plasmidSCP2 and thus also plasmid SCP2 is presented inFigure 1 of the accompanying drawings. Plasmids SCP2 and SCP2 can be conventionally isolated respectively from the Streptomyces coelicolorA3 2 and Streptomyces coelicolor MllO strains deposited and made part of the permanent stock culture collection of the Northern Regional Research Laboratory, Peoria,Illinois. Streptomyces coelicolor A3 2 is available to the public as a preferred source and stock reservoir of plasmid SCP2 under the accession number 15042. Streptomyces coelicolor M110 is available to the public as a preferred source and stock reservoir of plasmidSCP2 under the accession number 15041. Many tra function conferring and origin of replication containing restriction fragments of plasmidsSCP2 and SCP2 can be constructed. Those specifically exemplified, for illustrative purposes, include the 5.4kb EcoRI SalI, the 6.Okb Sail, the il9kb EcoRI HindIII, and the z31kb EcoRI restriction fragments of plasmid SCP2 and the 31kb BglII restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2. The aforementioned plasmid SCP2 andSCP2 fragments were respectively ligated to an origin of replication containing and antibiotic resistanceconferring fragment of E. coli plasmids pBR325 and pBR322.Those skilled in the art will recognize that although not required, it is convenient for both theDNA segment that confers antibiotic resistance in E.coli and the E. coli origin of replication to comprise a restriction fragment of the same E. coli plasmid. Thus, for convenience and ease of construction, the 31kb EcoRI fragment of plasmid SCP2 and the 6kb EcoRI fragment of plasmid pBR325 were ligated to form illustrative plasmids pJL120 and pJL121. Recombinant plasmids of two orientations result because the fragments can be ligated in either direction.Similarly, ligation of the SCP2 6.Okb SalI fragment and the 6kb SalI fragment of pBR325 results in the illustrative plasmids pJL180 and pJL181 ligation of the SCP2 5.4kb EcoRI SalI fragment and the 4.8kb EcoRI SalI fragment of pBR325 results in the illustrative plasmid pJL125 and ligation of the SCP2 BamHI digest and the 4.4kb BamHI fragment of plasmid pBR322 results in the illustrative plasmid pJL114. All of the aforementioned vectors are readily selectable in each of E. coli and Streptomyces. For example, in E. coli, plasmids pJL120 and pJL121 confer ampicillin and tetracycline resistance plasmids pJL180 and pJL181 confer ampicillin and chloramphenicol resistance and plasmids pJ125 and pJL114 confer only ampicillin resistance. Therefore, the vectors are conventionally selectable in the E. coli host system by adding the appropriate antibiotic to the culture medium. The aforementioned vectors also produce the pock phenotype and therefore are conventionally selectable in Streptomyces. The pock phenotype is an assayable trait and known phenomenon Bibb and Hopwood, 1981, J. Gen. Microbiol. 126 427 associated with lethal zygosis and the tra function tra genes coding for sexual transmissability of Streptomyces sex factors.Three distinct pock morphologies are associated with transformants, when plated on an appropriate indicator strain, of plasmids SCP2, SCP2 , and SCP2 and SCP2 derivatives. The colony morphology identified with the wild type SCP2 and the mutant SCP2 are respectively designated herein as P and P . A third and heretofore unknown pock morphology results from cloning into theEcoRI restriction site of SCP2 or SCP2 . Such an insertion inactivates the P gene and unexpectedly results in a morphologically distinguishable minipock phenotype, designated herein as .M, when transformants are appropriately plated. Minipock is a pock of significantly smaller size than pocks caused by eitherSCP2 or SCP2 . The present invention thus provides a novel method for detecting transformants comprising 1 mixing Streptomyces cells, under transforming conditions, with a recombinant DNA cloning vector, said vector comprising a an origin of replication and P gene containing restriction fragment of plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 , and b a non lethal DNA sequence cloned into the EcoRI restriction site of said P gene, and 2 growing said Streptomyces cells on a lawn of an indicator Streptomyces strain and select ing colonies that show the M pock phenotype. Only transformed Streptomyces cells will show the M pock phenotype and therefore transformants can be readily identified and selected. Those skilled in the art will quickly recognize, from the above description of the present pJL vectors, that plasmids pJL120, pJL121, and pJL125 code for M phenotype, that plasmids pJL180 and pJL181 code for P phenotype, and that plasmid pJL114 codes for P phenotype. Appropriate indicator strains for expression of the pock phenotype are known and include the various SCP2 and SCP2 strains as illustrated in the Examples below. The present vectors are thus selectable and extremely useful in Streptomyces. The aforementioned plasmids can also be provided with a DNA segment that confers antibiotic resistance in Streptomyces. Such derivatives, specifically exemplified for illustrative purposes by plasmids pJL190 and pJL195, express an additional selectable phenotype. Plasmid pJLl90 was constructed by ligating the neomycin resistance conferring z7.7kb EcoRI HindIII fragment of plasmid pLR4 to the i19kb EcoRI HindIII fragment of plasmid pJL121. Plasmid pJL195 was constructed by ligating the pLR4 7.5kb EcoRI partial SalI fragment to the 5.4kb EcoRI SalI fragment of plasmid pJL125. The latter pJL125 plasmid comprises the largest 5.4kb EcoRI SalI fragment of plasmid pSCP2 and was constructed by SalI deletion of plasmid pJL121. illustrative plasmids pJLl90 and pJL195, in addition to neomycin resistance, also express the M phenotype as discussed above. Plasmid pLR4, the source of the neomycin resistance conferring fragments, is 7.7kb and is constructed by ligating BamHI treated plasmids pBR322 and pLR1. Plasmid pLR1 is 14.8kb and is constructed by ligating HindIII treated plasmid pIJ2, disclosed inThompson et al., 1980, Nature 286 525, to HindIIItreated plasmid pBR322. As is readily apparent to those skilled in the art, both plasmids pLR4 and pLR1 contain the same neomycin resistance gene and thus either plasmid can be used for constructing the aforementioned pJL neomycin resistant vectors. An additional neomycin resistance conferring plasmid, designated as pJL192, was isolated as a spontaneous mutant of plasmid pJLl90 resident inStreptomyces griseofuscus. Plasmid pJL192 specifies resistance to elevated levels of neomycin and therefore comprises a novel neomycin resistance gene which is distinguishable from the resistance gene comprising plasmids pJLl90, pJL195, pIJ2, pLR4, and pLRl. In a similar manner, an additional neomycin resistanceconferring plasmid, designated as pJLl99, was isolated as a spontaneous mutant of plasmid pJLl95. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the novel neomycin resistance gene of plasmid pJL192 or pJLl99 can be readily excised and ligated to other vectors. The gene allows for improved and more efficient selection of transformants. As in the case of plasmids pJLl90 and pJL195, transformants of plasmids pJL192 and pJLl99 express the M phenotype when plated on an appropriate indicator strain. Plasmid pJL192 can be conventionally isolated from E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL192, a strain deposited and made part of the permanent stock culture collection of the Northern Regional Research Laboratory, Peoria,Illinois. It is available to the public as a stock reservoir and preferred source of plasmid pJL192 under the accession number B 15040. A DNA segment that confers resistance to antibiotic thiostrepton, exemplified by the 1.35kb BamHI restriction fragment of plasmid pLR2, can also be used with or substituted for the neomycin resistanceconferring segment. Plasmid pLR2, the source of the thiostrepton resistance conferring fragment, is 18.7kb and is constructed by ligating HindIII treated plasmid pIJ6, disclosed in Thompson et al., 1980, Nature 286 525, to HindIII treated plasmid pBR322. Plasmid pLR2 is functional in E. coli and therefore can be amplified and isolated conveniently for subsequent manipulation. For convenience and ease of construction, the thiostrepton resistance conferring 1.35kb BamHI fragment of plasmid pLR2 was ligated into the BamHI restriction site of plasmid pBR328 to form plasmid pJL193. The xlkb Boll restriction fragment of pJL193 contains the thiostrepton resistance conferring DNA segment. Therefore, ligation, as described in Examples 52 56, results in vectors that are within the scope of the present invention. Various plasmid SCP2 and SCP2 restriction fragments can be used for purposes of constructing the present invention provided that the origin of repli cation contained in their respective 5.4kb EcoRI SalI restriction fragments is present. Such additional plasmid SCP2 and SCP2 restriction fragments include, but are not limited to, the 6kb SalI, 15kb PstI, 23kb BglII, 15kb BamHI, 14kb EcoRI PstI, 13kb EcoRI BamKI, and 15kb PstI BamHI fragments.These fragments contain the Streptomyces tra function and can be ligated to a functional E. coli origin of replicationcontaining and antibiotic resistance conferring restriction fragment of an E. coli plasmid. Such E.coli plasmids include, for example, plasmids pBR322, pBR324, pBR325, pBR327, pBR328 and the like. Therefore, the present invention is not limited to the use of either plasmid pBR322 or pBR325 as exemplified in several pJL constructions. Although the neomycin and thiostrepton antibiotic resistance conferring DNA segments exemplified herein are respectively the 7.7kb EcoRI HindIII and the 7.5kb EcoRI partial SalI fragments of plasmid pLR4 and the pLR2 1.35 BamHI and the pJL193 1kb BclI fragments, those skilled in the art can construct and use other DNA segments that also confer resistance to neomycin or thiostrepton. Other neomycin resistanceconferring DNA segments of plasmid pLRl include, for example, the 3.4kb BamHI restriction fragment, the 3.5kb PstI restriction fragment, and the larger of theSstI KpnI subfragments of the 3.4kb BamHI restriction fragment.Other thiostrepton resistance conferring segments include, for example, the z13kb PstI fragment of plasmid pLR2. Still other DNA segments conferring resistance to the same or to different antibiotics such as, for example, hygromycin, viamycin, tylosin, erythromycin and the like, can also be constructed and used by those skilled in the art. In addition, various functional derivatives of the above described antibiotic resistance conferring DNA segments can be constructed by adding, eliminating, or substituting nucleotides in accordance with the genetic code. Ligation of the aforementioned derivatives, or any of the other antibiotic resistance conferringDNA segments, to a vector comprising an E coli antibiotic resistance conferring DNA segment, an E. coli origin of replication containing restriction fragment, and also an origin of replication containing restriction fragment of plasmids SCP2 or SCP2 , results in plasmids that are within the scope of the present invention. Therefore, an antibiotic resistance conferring DNA segment can be used as a selectable marker in place of the Streptomyces tra function and associated pock phenotype. Thus, the present vectors are not limited to the use of tra alone or in combination with an antibiotic resistance conferring DNA segment.In addition, a particular antibiotic resistance conferringDNA segment is not limited to a single position on the present chimeric plasmids but can be ligated or inserted at varying sites provided that an origin of replication or other critical plasmid controlled physiological functions are not disrupted. Those skilled in the art understand or can readily determine which sites are advantageous for ligation or insertion of a particular DNA segment. The various restriction fragments of plasmids SCP2, SCP2 , pBR325, pBR322 and the like, and also the various antibiotic resistance conferring DNA segments comprising the present vectors, can be modified to facilitate ligation. For example, molecular linkers can be provided to some or all of the aforementionedDNA fragments. Thus, specific sites for subsequent ligation can be constructed conveniently. In addition, the origin of replication containing restriction fragments can also be modified by adding, eliminating, or substituting certain nucleotides to alter characteristics and to provide a variety of restriction sites for ligation of DNA. Those skilled in the art understand nucleotide chemistry and the genetic code and thus which nucleotides are interchangeable and whichDNA modifications are desirable for a specific purpose. The recombinant DNA cloning vectors that contain the SCP2 or SCP2 Streptomyces tra function are self transmissable and thus readily transferred during mating between transformed and non transformed Streptomyces taxa. This is advantageous because the present vectors therefore can be transformed not only by protoplast transformation but also by conventional genetic crosses. Consequently, the vectors are useful inStreptomyces strains which are difficult to protoplast thus greatly expanding the number of hosts in which genetic manipulation and DNA cloning can be done. More importantly, DNA libraries constructed in the present vectors can be conveniently and rapidly screened for interesting genes by conventional replicaplate mating procedures. Without the tra function, DNA must be isolated from each of the thousands of clones in the library and transformed into appropriate strains to identify clones that contain desirable genes. Since there are no broadly applicable phage vectors for use in Streptomyces, the present tra vectors fulfill the general cloning and screening role analogous to that of bacteriophage A in replica plate transduction for screening gene libraries in E coli. Desirable genes can thus be readily identified by the replica plate mating procedure and then easily amplified by shuttling into E. coli as described in Example 20C below. The vectors of the present invention are broadly applicable and are transformed into host cells of many Streptomyces taxa, particularly restrictionless strains of economically important taxa that produce antibiotics such as aminoglycoside, macrolide, lactam, polyether, and glycopeptide antibiotics. Such restrictionless strains are readily selected and isolated from Streptomyces taxa by conventional procedures well known in the art Lomovskaya et al., 1980, MicrobiologicalReviews 44 206 . Host cells of restrictionless strains lack restriction enzymes and therefore do not cut or degrade plasmid DNA upon transformation. For purposes of the present application, host cells containing restriction enzymes that do not cut any of the restriction sites of the present vectors are also considered restrictionless. Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Streptomyces taxa that produce aminoglycoside antibiotics and in which the present vectors are especially useful and are transformed, include restric tionless cells of, for example S. kana myceticus kanamycins , S. chrestomyceticus aminosidine , S.griseoflavus antibiotic MA 1267 , S. microsporeus antibiotic SF 767 , S, ribosidificus antibioticSF733 , S. flavopersicus spectinomycin , S. spectabilis actinospectacin , S. rimosus forma paromomycinus paromomycins, catenulin , S. fradiae var. italicus aminosidine , S. bluensis var. bluensis bluensomycin ,S. catenulae catenulin , S. olivoreticuli var. cellulophilus destomycin A , S. tenebrarius tobramycin, apramycin , S. lavendulae neomycin , S. albogriseolus neomycins , S. albus var. metamycinus metamycin , S.hygroscopicus var. sagamiensis spectinomycin , S.bikiniensis streptomycin , S. griseus streptomycin ,S. erythrochromogenes var. narutoensis streptomycin ,S. poolensis streptomycin , S. galbus streptomycin ,S. rameus streptomycin , S. olivaceus streptomycin ,S. mashuensis streptomycin , S. hygroscopicus var.limoneus validamycins , S. rimofaciens destomycins ,S. hygroscopicus forma glebosus glebomycin , S.fradiae hybrimycins neomycins , S. eurocidicus antibiotic A16316 C , S. aquacanus N methyl hygromycinB , S. crystallinus hygromycin A , S. noboritoensis hygromycin , S. hygroscopicus hygromycins , S.atrofaciens hygromycin , S. kasugaspinus kasugamycins ,S. kasugaensis kasugamycins , S. netropsis antibioticLL AM31 , S. lividus lividomycins , S. hofuensis seldomycin complex , and S. canus ribosyl paromamine . Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Streptomyces taxa that produce macrolide antibiotics and in which the present vectors are especially useful and are transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example S. caelestis antibiotic M188 , S. platensis platenomycin , S. rochei var. volubilis antibiotic T2636 , S. venezuelae methymycins , S. griseofuscus bundlin , S. narbonensis josamycin, narbomycin , S. fungicidicus antibiotic NA 181 , S. griseofaciens antibioticPA133A, B , S. roseocitreus albocycline , S. bruneogriseus albocycline , S. roseochromogenes albocycline ,S cinerochromogenes cineromycin B , S. albus albomycetin , S. felleus argomycin, picromycin , S.rochei lankacidin, borrelidin , S. violaceoniger lankacidin , S. griseus borrelidin , S. maizeus ingramycin , S. albus var. coilmyceticus coleimycin ,S. mycarofaciens acetyl leukomycin, espinomycin , S.hygroscopicus turimycin, relomycin, maridomycin, tylosin, carbomycin , S. griseospiralis relomycin , S.lavendulae aldgamycin , S. rimosus neutramycin , S.deltae deltamycins , S. fungicidicus var. espinomyceticus espinomycins , S. furdicidicus mydecamycin , S. eurocidicus methymycin , S. griseolus griseomycin , S. flavochromogenes amaromycin, shincomycins , S. fimbriatus amaromycin , S. fasciculus amaromycin , S. erythreus erythromycins , S. antibioticus oleandomycin , S. olivochromogenes oleandomycin , S. spinichromogenes var. suragaoensis kujimycins , S. kitasatoensis leucomycin , S. narbonensis var.josamyceticus leucomycin A3, josamycin , S. albdgriseolus mikonomycin , S. bikiniensis chalcomycin , S. cirratus cirramycin , S. djakartensis niddamycin , S. eurythermus angolamycin , S. fradiae tylosin, lactenocin, macrocin , S. goshikiensis bandamycin , S. griseoflavus acumycin ,S. halstedii carbomycin , S. tendae carbomycin , S.macrosporeus carbomycin , S. thermotolerans carbomycin , S. albireticuli carbomycin , and S. ambofaciens spiramycin . Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Streptomyces taxa that produce lactam antibiotics and in which the present vectors are especially useful and are transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example S. lipmanii A16884, MM4550, My13902 , S. clavuligerus A16886B, clavulanic acid , S. lactamdurans cephamycin C , S.griseus cephamycin A, B , S. hygroscopicus deacetoxycephalosporin C , S. wadayamensie WS 3442 D , S.chartreusis SF 1623 , S. heteromorphus and S. panayensis C2081X S. cinnamonensis, S. fimbriatus, S. halstedii,S. rochei and S. viridochromogenes cephamycins A, B S. cattleya thienamycin and S. olivaceus, S. flavo virens, S. flavus, S. fulvoviridis, S. argenteolus, andS. sioyaensis MM 4550 and MM 13902 . Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Streptomyces taxa that produce polyether antibiotics and in which the present vectors are especially useful and are transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example S. albus A204,A28695A and B, salinomycin , S. hygroscopicus A218, emericid, DE3936 , A120A, A28695A and B, etheromycin, dianemycin , S. griseus grisorixin , S. conglobatus ionomycin , S. eurocidicus var. asterocidicus laidlomycin , S. lasaliensis lasalocid , S. ribosidificus lonomycin , S. cacaoi var. asoensis lysocellin , S. cinnamonensis monensin , S. aureofaciens narasin , S.gallinarius RP 30504 , S. longwoodensis lysocellin ,S. flaveolus CP38936 , S. mutabilis S 11743a , and S. violaceoniger nigericin . Preferred host cells of restrictionless strains of Streptomyces taxa that produce glycopeptide antibiotics and in which the present vectors are especially useful and are transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example S. orientalis andS. haranomachiensis vancomycin S. candidus A 35512, avoparcin , and S. eburosporeus LL AM 374 . Preferred host cells of other Streptomyces restrictionless strains in which the present vectors are especially useful and can be transformed, include restrictionless cells of, for example S. granuloruber,S. roseosporus, S. lividans, S. espinosus, and S. azureus. In addition to the representative Streptomyces host cells described above, the present vectors are also useful and can be transformed into E. coli.Thus, vectors of the present invention have wide application and are useful and can be transformed into host cells of a variety of organisms. While all the embodiments of the present invention are useful, some of the present recombinantDNA cloning vectors and transformants are preferred.Accordingly, preferred vectors are pJL114, pJL121, pJL125, pJL180, pJL190, pJL192, pJL195, pJL197, pJLl99 and pHJL212 and preferred transformants are Streptomyces griseofuscus pJL114, S. griseofuscus pJL121, S.griseofuscus pJL125, S. griseofuscus pJL180, S.griseofuscus pJL190, S. griseofuscus pJL192, S, griseofuscus pJL195, S griseofuscus pJLl99, S. griseofuscus pJL197, S. griseofuscus pHJL212, E. coli K12C600Rk Mk pJL114, E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL121, E.coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL125, E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL180, coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL190, E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL192, E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL195, E. coli K12C600Rk Mk pJL199, E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL197, and F. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pHJL212. Moreover, of this preferred group, plasmids pJL190, pJL192, pJL195, pJL197, pJL199 and pJL and transformants S. griseofuscus pJL190, S. griseofuscus pJL192, S. griseofuscus pJL195, S. griseofuscus pJL197, S. griseofuscus pJLl99, S. griseofuscus pHJL212, E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL190, E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL192, E. coli K12C600Rk Mk pJL195 and E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL197, E.coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL199 and E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pHJL212 are most preferred. Streptomyces griseofuscus is a preferred host because it does not contain an endogenous plasmid or synthesize an antibiotic.Therefore, transformants of S. griseofuscus can be screened for clones that express genes for antibiotic synthesis. The vectors of the present invention comprises origins of replication that are functional in E.coli and Streptomyces and therefore provide flexibility in the choice of hosts. Consequently, cloned DNA sequences can be shuttled into E. coli for construction of new plasmids, physical analysis, and for mapping of restriction sites and then shuttled back into Streptomyces for functional analysis and improvement of strains. This is particularly advantageous because amplification and manipulation of plasmids can be done faster and more conveniently in E. coli than in Streptomyces. For example, the present vectors can be amplified conventionally in E. coli K12 by growth with spectinomycin or chloramphenicol. This is not possible in theStreptomyces host system. In addition, since all the plasmid vectors contain resistance markers that are expressed in E. coli K12, recombinants are easily selected.Therefore, large amounts of plasmid DNA can be isolated conveniently and in a shorter time than that required for doing similar procedures in Streptomyces. Thus, after desired recombinant DNA procedures are accomplished in the E. coli host system, the particular Streptomyces DNA can be removed, reconstructed to plasmid form if necessary , and then transformed into a Streptomyces host cell. Since the present vectors are fully selectable in Streptomyces, identification of recombinant clones can be done efficiently. The recombinant DNA cloning vectors and transformants of the present invention have broad utility and help fill the need for suitable cloning vehicles for use in Streptomyces and E. coli. Moreover, the ability of the present vectors to confer a pock phenotype or resistance to antibiotics also provides a functional means for selecting transformants.This is important because of the practical necessity for determining and selecting the particular cells that have acquired vector DNA. Additional DNA segments, that lack functional tests for their presence, can also be inserted into the present vectors and then transformants containing the non selectable DNA can be isolated by appropriate antibiotic or other phenotype selection. Such non selectable DNA segments can be inserted at any site, except within regions necessary for plasmid function and replication, and include genes that specify antibiotic modification enzymes and regulatory genes of all types. More particularly, a non selectable DNA segment that comprises a gene can be inserted into a plasmid such as, for example, illustrative plasmid pJL192, at the internal BamHI restriction site of the 7.7kb EcoRI HindIII resistance conferring fragment.Such an insertion inactivates the neomycin resistance gene and thus allows for the easy identification ofStreptomyces transformants containing the recombinant plasmid. This is done by first selecting for M pock morphology and, secondarily, identifying those M transformants that are not resistant to neomycin. In a similar manner, insertion of a DNA segment into illustrative plasmid pJL180 at, for example, the unique PstI restriction site, inactivates the ampicillin resistance gene. Thus, E. coli transformants carrying this recombinant plasmid can also be identified easily by first selecting for chloramphenicol resistance and, secondarily, identifying those chloramphenicol resistant transformants that are not resistant to ampicillin. Therefore, the ability to select for antibiotic resistance or other phenotypic markers in Streptomyces and E. coli allows for the efficient isolation of the extremely rare cells that contain the particular non selectable DNA of interest. The functional test for antibiotic resistance, as described above, can also be used to identify DNA segments that act as control elements and direct expression of an individual antibiotic resistance gene.Such segments, including but not limited to, promoters, attenuators, repressors, inducers, ribosomal binding sites, and the like, can be used to control the expression of other genes in cells of Streptomyces and E.coli. The antibiotic resistance conferring vectors of the present invention are also useful for insuring that linked DNA segments are stably maintained in host cells over many generations. These genes or DNA fragments, covalently linked to an antibiotic resistanceconferring fragment and propagated either in Streptomyces or E. coli, are maintained by exposing the transformants to levels of antibiotic that are toxic to non transformed cells. Therefore, transformants that lose the vector, and consequently any covalently linkedDNA, cannot grow and are eliminated from the culture.Thus, the vectors of the present invention can be used to maintain any DNA sequence of interest. The cloning vectors and transformants of the present invention provide for the cloning of genes to improve yields of various products that are currently produced in Streptomyces and related cells. Examples of such products include, but are not limited to,Streptomycin, Tylosin, Cephalosporins, Actaplanin,Narasin, Monensin, Apramycin, Tobramycin, Erythromycin, and the like. The present invention also provides selectable vectors that are useful for cloning, characterizing, and reconstructing DNA sequences that code for commercially important proteins such as, for example, human insulin, human proinsulin, human growth hormone, bovine growth hormone, glucagon, interferon, and the like for enzymatic functions in metabolic pathways leading to commercially important processes and compounds or for control elements that improve gene expression.These desired DNA sequences include, but are not limited to, DNA that codes for enzymes that catalyze synthesis of derivatized antibiotics such as, for example, Streptomycin, Cephalosporin, Tylosin,Actaplanin, Narasin, Monensin, Apramycin, Tobramycin, and Erythromycin derivatives, or for enzymes that mediate and increase bioproduction of antibiotics or other products. The capability of inserting, stabilizing, and shuttling the aforementioned DNA segments into Streptomyces and E. coli allows for easy recombinant genetic manipulation for increasing the yield and availability of antibiotics that are produced by Streptomyces. In addition, since the plasmid SCP2 or SCP2 origin of replication codes for low copy number, almost any DNA sequence, including those that are lethal when expressed from a high copy number plasmid, can be readily cloned into the present vectors and shuttled betweenStreptomyces and E. coli. Streptomyces coelicolor A3 2 and S. coelicolor Mli 0, as respective sources of plasmids SCP2 and SCP2 , can be cultured in a number of ways using any of several different media. Carbohydrate sources which are preferred in a culture medium include, for example, molasses, glucose, dextrin, and glycerol, and nitrogen sources include, for example, soy flour, amino acid mixtures, and peptones. Nutrient inorganic salts are also incorporated and include the customary salts capable of yielding sodium, potassium, ammonia, calcium, phosphate, chloride, sulfate, and like ions. As is necessary for the growth and development of other microorganisms, essential trace elements are also added. Such trace elements are commonly supplied as impurities incidental to the addition of other constituents of the medium. Streptomyces coelicolor M110 and S. coelicolor A3 2 are grown under aerobic culture conditions over a relatively wide pH range of about 5 to 9 at temperatures ranging from about 15b to 400C. For production of plasmids SCP2 and SCP2 at highest copy number, however, it is desirable to start with a culture medium at a pH of about 7.2 and maintain a culture temperature of about 300C. Culturing Streptomyces coelicolor M110 and S. coelicolor A3 2 under the aforementioned conditions, results in a reservoir of cells from which plasmids SCP2 and SCP2 are respectively isolated conveniently by techniques well known in the art. The following examples further illustrate and detail the invention disclosed herein. Both an explanation of and the actual procedures for constructing the invention are described where appropriate. Example 1 Isolation of Plasmid SCP2 A. Culture of Streptomyces coelicolor M110 A vegetative inoculum of Streptomyces coelicolor M110 NRRL 15041 was conventionally prepared by growing the strain under submerged aerobic conditions in 50 ml. of sterilized trypticase soy broth at 35 g. l. in deionized water. The trypticase soy broth inoculum was incubated for 48 hours at a temperature of 300C. The 50 ml. culture was then homogenized, transferred to 450 ml. of sterilized YEMESG medium, and then incubated for at least 40, but not more than 65 hours, at 300C. The pH was not adjusted. After incubation, the Streptomyces coelicolor M110 cells were ready for harvest and subsequent isolation of plasmid DNA. Trypticase soy broth is obtained from Difco Laboratories, Detroit, Michigan. YEMESG comprises .3 yeast extract, .5 peptone, .3 malt extract, 1 dextrose, 34 sucrose, .1 MgC12, and .1 glycine.B. Plasmid Isolation About 10 g. wet wgt of Streptomyces coelicolor M110 cells were harvested by centrifugation 10 minutes, 40C., 10,000 rpm and then about 10 ml. g. wet wgt cells of TES buffer .01M Tris hydroxymethyl aminoethane tris , .001M EDTA, 25 sucrose, pH 8 was added.The cells were vortexed into suspension followed by addition of 10 ml. g. wet wgt cells of .25M EDTA, pH 8 and then 5 ml. g. wet wgt cells of lysozyme 10 mg. ml.in TES . After the mixture was incubated at 370C. for about 15 minutes, about 1.5 ml. g. wet wgt cells of 20 SDS sodium lauryl sulfate BDH Chemicals Ltd. Poole,Endland , was added. The resultant mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 30 minutes, and then 5M NaCl was added to give a final concentration of 1M Nail. After standing again at room temperature 15 minutes , the mixture was placed on ice for 2 hours.The lysate was centrifuged 20 minutes, 40C., 17,500 rpm and the supernatant was pooled and mixed with .64 volumes of isopropyl alcohol. The DNA precipitate was collected by centrifugation 15 minutes, 40C., 10,000 rpm . The precipitate was air dried and then resuspended in 1 ml. g. wet wgt cells of TE buffer .01MTris, .001M EDTA . Centrifugation 20 hours, 200C., 50,000 rpm using cesium chloride gradients with propidium iodide was carried out to purify the plasmidDNA. Following centrifugation, the desired plasmidSCP2 DNA band was removed and the propidium iodide extracted by conventional procedures. The CsCl DNA solution was stored at 200C. Prior to use, the DNA was desalted by either PD10 Bio Rad column exchange with TE or by dialysis against TE. The DNA was precipitated with ethanol by conventional procedures and redissolved in TE. Example 2 Construction of Plasmid pLRlA. HindIII Digestion of Plasmid pIJ2 About 20 p1. 20 veg. of plasmid pIJ2 DNA, disclosed in Thompson et al., 1980, Nature 286 525, 5 pl. BSA Bovine Serum albumin, 1 mg. ml. , 19 p1. water, 1 p1. of HindIII containing 3 New England BioLabs units restriction enzyme , and 5 p1. reaction mix were incubated at 370C. for 2 hours. The reaction was terminated by the addition of about 50 pl. of 4M ammonium acetate and 200 l. of 95 ethanol. The resultant DNA precipitate was washed twice in 70 ethanol, dried in vacuo, suspended in 20 til. of TE buffer, and frozen at 200C. for storage. Restriction and other enzymes can be obtained from the following sources New England Bio Labs., Inc. 32 Tozer Road Beverly, Massachusetts 01915 Boehringer Mannheim Biochemicals 7941 Castleway Drive Indianapolis, Indiana 46250 Bethesda Research Laboratories BRL Box 6010 Rockville, Maryland 20850 Research Products Miles Laboratories, Inc. Elkhart, Indiana 46515 Reaction mix for HindIII restriction enzyme was pre pared with the following composition 600,M NaCl 100mM Tris HCl, pH7.9 70mM MgCl2 l0rn DithiothreitolB. HindIII Digestion of Plasmid pBR322 About 8 l. 4 g. of plasmid pBR322 DNA,, 5 1. reaction mix, 5 vl. BSA 1 mg. ml. , 31 1. water, and 1 l. of HindIII restriction enzyme were incubated at 370C. for 2 hours. After the reaction was terminated by incubating at 600C. for 10 minutes, about 50 p1. of ammonium acetate and 200 ijl. of 95 ethanol were added. The resultant DNA precipitate was washed twice in 70 ethanol, dried in vacuo, and suspended in 45 p1. of water.C. Ligation of HindIII Digested Plasmids pIJ2 and pBR322 About 20 p1. of HindIII treated plasmid pIJ2 from Example 2A , 20 l. of HindIII treated plasmid pBR322 from Example 2B , 5 ijl. BSA 1 mg. ml. , 1 pl. of T4 DNA ligase , and 5 ul. ligation mix were incubated at 16 C. for 4 hours. The reaction was terminated by the addition of about 50 l. 4M ammonium acetate and 200 l. of 95 ethanol. The resultant DNA precipitate was washed twice in 70 ethanol, dried in vacuo, and suspended in TE buffer. The suspended DNA constituted the desired plasmid pLRl. T4 DNA ligase can be obtained from the following source New England Bio Labs., Inc. 32 Tozer Rd. Beverly, Massachusetts 01915 Ligation mix was prepared with the following composi tion 500mM Tris HCl, pH7.8 200mM Dithiothreitol 100mM MgCl2 lOmM ATP Example 3 Construction of E. coli K12 HBl0l pLRl About 10 ml. of frozen competent E. coli R12 HB101 cells Bolivar et al., 1977, Gene 2 75 93 were pelleted by centrifugation and then suspended in about 10 ml. of .01M sodium chloride. Next, the cells were pelleted again, resuspended in about 10 ml. of .03M calcium chloride, incubated on ice for 20 minutes, pelleted a third time, and finally, resuspended in 1.25 ml. of .03M calcium chloride. The resultant cell suspension was competent for subsequent transformation. Plasmid pLRl in TE buffer prepared inExample 2C was ethanol precipitated, suspended in 150 p1. of 30mM calcium chloride solution, and gently mixed in a test tube with about 200 p1. of competent E.coli K12 HB101 cells. The resultant mixture was incubated on.ice for about 45 minutes and then at 420C.for about 1 minute. Next, about 3 ml. of L broth Bertani, 1951, J. Bacteriology 62 293 containing 50 Vg. ml. of ampicillin was added. The mixture was incubated with shaking at 370C. for 1 hour and then plated on L agar Miller, 1972, Experiments in MolecularGenetics, Cold Spring Harbor Labs, Cold Spring Harbor,New York containing ampicillin. Surviving colonies were selected and tested for the expected phenotype AmpR, TetS , and constituted the desired E.coli K12 HBl0l pLRl transformants. Example 4 Construction of Plasmid pLR4A. Partial BamHI Digestion of Plasmid pLRl About 10 ul. 10 pg. of plasmid pLRl, 5 p1. BSA 1 mg. ml. , 29 p1. water, 1 pl. of BamHI diluted 1 4 with water restriction enzyme, and 5 pi. reaction mix were incubated at 370C. for 15 minutes. The reaction was terminated by the addition of about 50 p1. of 4M ammonium acetate and 200 p1. of 95 ethanol. The resultant DNA precipitate was washed twice in 70 ethanol, dried in vacuo, and suspended in 20 p1. water. Reaction mix for BamHI restriction enzyme was pre pared with the following composition 1.5M NaCI 60mM Tris HCl, pH7.9 60mM MgC12 B. BamHI Digestion of Plasmid pBR322 The desired digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2B except that BamHI restriction enzyme and reaction mix were used in place of HindIII restriction enzyme and reaction mix. The digested plasmid pBR322 was suspended in 29 p1. of water.C. Ligation of Partial BamHI Digested Plasmid pLR1 and BamHI Digested Plasmid pBR322 The desired ligation was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 2C. The resultant ligated DNA was suspended in TE buffer and constituted the desired plasmid pLR4. Example 5 Construction of E. coli K12 HBlOl pLR4 The desired construction was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 3 except that plasmid pLR4, rather than plasmid pLR1, wt used for transformations. Surviving colonies were selected and tested for the expected phenotype AmpR,TetS , and constituted the desired E. coli K12 HB101 pLR4 transformants. Example 6 Construction of Plasmids pJL120 and pJL121 A. EcoRI Digestion of Plasmid SCP2 About 150 l. 5.7 g. of plasmid SCP2 DNA, 1 ml. water, 2 p1. of EcoRI containing 20 BRL units restriction enzyme, and 17 ,ul. EcoRI reaction mix were incubated at 370C. for 2.5 hours. The reaction was terminated by incubation at 650C. for 15 minutes.The reaction was conventionally analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis AGE to verify that restriction was complete. The restricted DNA was stored at 40C. for subsequent use. Reaction mix for EcoRI restriction enzyme was prepared with the following composition 500mM NaCl 1000mM Tris HCl, pH7.5 100mM MgC12 B. EcoRI Digestion of Plasmid pBR325 The desired digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 6A except that plasmid pBR325, rather than plasmid SCP2 , was used. The resultant DNA was stored at 40C. for subsequent use.C. Ligation of EcoRI Digested Plasmids SCP2 and pBR325 About 40 iji. of EcoRI digested plasmid SCP2 from Example 6A , 10 p1. of EcoRI digested plasmid pBR325 from Example 6B , 10 Nil. of MgCl2 .1M , 10 pl. of NH4 2S04 .1M , 10 Nil. ATP 2mM .1 Nil. of T4 DNA ligase, and 20 Nil. ligation mix were incubated at 40C.for 18 hours. The reaction was analyzed by AGE to verify appropriate ligation. The suspended DNA constituted the desired 35.8kb plasmids pJL120 and pJL121. Recombinant plasmids of two orientations result because the plasmid pBR325 EcoRI fragment can be oriented in either direction. A restriction site map of each of plasmids pJL120 and pJL121 was determined after isolation as disclosed in Example 7 and is presented in Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings. Ligation mix was prepared with the following composition 50mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 10mM ss mercaptoethanol lmM EDTA 50 mg. ml. BSA Example 7 Construction of E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL120 and E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL121A. Preparation of Frozen Competent E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk Fresh overnight cultures of E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk disclosed in Chang and Cohen, 1974, Proc.Nat. Acad. Sci. 71 1030 1034 were subcultured 1 10 in fresh L broth disclosed in Miller, 1972, Experiments in Molecular Genetics, Cold Spring Harbor Labs, ColdSpring Harbor, New York and grown at 370C. for 1 hour.A total of 660 Klett Units of cells were harvested, washed with 2.5 ml. of 100mM NaC12, suspended in 150mMCaCl2 with 108 glycerol, and incubated at room temperature for 20 minutes. The cells were harvested by centrifugation, resuspended in .5 ml. of CaC12 glycerol, chilled on ice for 3 5 minutes and frozen. The suspensions of cells were stored in liquid nitrogen until use. Preservation and storage did not adversely affect the viability or frequency of transformation by covalently closed circular DNA.B. Transformation The competent cells were thawed in an ice bath and mixed in a ratio of .1 ml. of cells to .05 ml.of DNA 10 p1. of the sample disclosed in Example 6C and 40 Nil. of .lXSSC .015M NaC1, .0015M Sodium Citrate at pH 7 . The transformation mixture was chilled on ice for 20 minutes, heat shocked at 420C. for 1 minute and chilled on ice for 10 minutes. The samples were then diluted with .85 ml. of L broth, incubated at 370C.for 1.5 hours, spread on L agar containing ampicillin 50 g. ml. and tetracycline 12.5 g. ml. and incubated for 18 hours at 370C. The resultant colonies were selected and tested for the expected phenotype AmpR, TetR, CMS and constituted the desired E. coliK12 C600Rk Mk pJL120 and E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL121 transformants. The amplicillin and tetracycline resistant colonies were isolated according to known procedures, cultured, and then conventionally identified by restriction enzyme and AGE analysis of the constitutive plasmids. The identified transformants were then used for subsequent production and isolation of plasmids pJL120 and pJL121 according to known procedures. Example 8 Construction of Plasmids pJL180 and pJL181 A. SalI Digestion of Plasmid SCP2 and Isolation of 6.0kb SalI Fragment The desired digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 6 except SalI restriction enzyme and reaction mix , rather than EcoRI restriction enzyme and reaction mix, were used. The reaction was assayed by AGE to verify completion and terminated by heating at 650C. for 15 minutes. The resultant SalI restriction fragments were separated by AGE and then the separated fragments were located in the gel by staining with ethidium bromide and visualizing fluorescent bands with an ultraviolet light.The gel fragment containing the r 6.Okb fragment of interest was excised from the gel and electroeluted into TBE buffer 1.6 Sigma 7 9 buffer , .093 Na2EDTA, .55 boric acid . The gel fragment in TBE buffer was placed in a dialysis bag and subjected to electrophoresis at 100 v for 1 hour. The aqueous solution was collected from the dialysis bag and passed over a DEAE cellulose column .5 ml. Whatman DE52 that had been equilibrated with equilibration buffer .1M KC1, 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.8 . The column was washed with 2.5 ml. of equilibration buffer and the DNA about 5 g was eluted with 1.5 ml. of elution buffer 1M NaCl, 10 mM Tris HC1, pH 7.8 . The eluent was adjusted to about .35M with respect to Na ion concentration, and then the DNA was precipitated by adding 2 volume about 9 ml. of 100 ethanol followed by cooling to 200C. for 16 hours. The DNA precipitate was pelleted by centrifugation, washed with 75 ethanol, dried, and dissolved in TE buffer. Hereinafter, this conventional isolation technique is referred to as AGE DE52 electroelution. Reaction mix for SalI restriction enzyme was prepared with the following composition 1500 m l NaCl 80 mM Tris HCl, pH7.5 60 i MgC12 2 mM EDTA Sigma 7 9 buffer can be obtained from Sigma Chemical Company, P.O. Box 14508, St. Louis, Missouri 63178 DEAE cellulose DE52 can be obtained from Whatman Inc., 9 Bridewell Place, Clifton, New Jersey 07014. B. Sail Digestion of Plasmid pBR325 The desired digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 8A except that plasmid pBR325 was employed and fragments were not separated by preparative AGE DE52 electroelution.The resultant DNA was dissolved in TE buffer and stored at 40C. for future use.C. Ligation of SalI Digested Plasmid pBR325 and z6.Okb SalI Fragment of Plasmid SCP2 About 1.5 Nig. of the 6.Okb SalI fragment ofSCP2 , prepared in Example 8A, was mixed with .5 yg. of SalI digested pBR325, prepared in Example 8B.The DNA mixture was precipitated by standard ethanol precipitation and redissolved in 3 Nil. of distilled water, 4 p1. of .66M ATP, 2 l. of ligase kinase mixture .25M Tris SCl, pH 7.8, 50 mM MgC12, 25 mM dithiothreitol and 25 glycerol and 1 Nil. of T4 DNA ligase 1 unit . After incubation for 1 hour at 150C., the reaction mixture was diluted with 12 Nil. of water, 20 Nil. of .66M ATP, 8 Nil. of ligase kinase mixture and then incubated at 150C. for 18 hours. The resultant ligated DNA was diluted 1 5 into .lXSSC and constituted the desired 12.0kb plasmids pJL180 and pJL181. Recombinant plasmids of two orientations result because the plasmid pBR325 SalI fragment can be oriented in either direction. A restriction site map of each of plasmids pJL180 and pJ181 is presented inFigure 3 of the accompanying drawings. Example 9 Construction of E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL180 and E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL181 The desired constructions were made in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7 except that the mixture of plasmid pJL180 and pJL181 DNA from Example 8C , rather than plasmid pJL120 and pJL121, were used. The resultant transformant colonies were selected and tested for the expected phenotype Amp , TetS, CMR , and constituted the desired E. coliK12 C600Rk Mk pJL180 and E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL181 transformants. The ampicillin and chloramphenicol resistant colonies were isolated according to known procedures, cultured, and then conventionally identified by restriction enzyme and AGE analysis of the constitutive plasmids.The identified transformants can then be used for subsequent production and isolation of plasmids pJL180 and pJL181 according to known procedures. Example 10 Construction of Plasmid pJL125 A. SalI Digestion of Plasmid pJL121 and Isolation of 10.2kb SalI Fragment The desired digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 8 except that the reaction was stopped before digestion was complete and except that plasmid pJL121, rather than plasmid SCP2 , was used. The resultant SalI restriction fragments were not separated by preparativeAGE but precipitated by standard ethanol precipitation.The restriction fragments were dissolved in TE buffer and immediately ligated.B. Ligation of 10.2kb SalI Fragment of Plasmid pJL121 The desired ligation was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 8C except that the SalI fragments of plasmid pJL121, rather than the SalI fragment of plasmid SCP2 and pBR325, were used. The resultant ligated DNA constituted the desired plasmid pJL125 plus 12 other plasmids that were subsequently isolated and shown to contain additional SalI restriction fragments of pJL121. Plasmid pJL125, which was conventionally isolated and contains an origin of replication from plasmid pBR325 and also the 5.4kb origin of replicationcontaining EcoRI SalI fragment of plasmid SCP2 , was dissolved in TE buffer and stored at 40C. for future use.A restriction site map of plasmid pJL125 is presented in Figure 4 of the accompanying drawing. The restriction site map was determined with plasmid from transformed E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk . Example 11 Construction of E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL125 The desired construction was made in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7 except that plasmid pJL125, rather than plasmids pJLl20 and pJL121, was used. The resultant colonies were selected and tested for the expected phenotype AmpR,TetS, CMS and constituted the desired E. coli K12C600Rk Mk pJL125 transformants. The identity of the transformants was further confirmed by AGE and restriction analysis by the procedure of Eckardt, 1978, Plasmid 1 584 and by Klein et al., 1980, Plasmid 3 88. The transformants were then conventionally cultured for subsequent production and isolation of plasmid pJL125 according to known procedures. Example 12 Construction of Plasmid pJLl90 A. EcoRI HindIII Digestion of Plasmid pJL121 and Isolation of rb19.Okb EcoRI HindIII Fragment About 200 l. 80 g. of plasmid pJL121 DNA, 30 l. BSA 1 mg. ml. , 40 Nil. of HindIII containing 200 BRL units restriction enzyme, and 30 p1. HindIII reaction mix were incubated at 370C. for about 3 hours and then at 650C. for 10 minutes. The 300 Nil. reaction mixture was cooled to 40C., supplemented with 110 Nil. of 10 HindIII EcoRI diluent reaction mix and 30 1. EcoRI restriction enzyme containing 300 BRL units , and then incubated at 370C. for 3 hours, then at 650C.for 10 minutes followed by cooling to 40C. The resultant 19.0kb EcoRI HindIII restriction fragment was conventionally isolated by AGE DE52 electroelution.The desired DNA was dissolved in TE buffer and stored at 40C. for future use. HindIII reaction mix was prepared with the following composition 60mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 500mM NaCl 60mM MgCl2 HindIII EcoRI diluent was prepared with the following compositlon 382mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 50mM NaCl 22mM MgCl2B. EcoRI HindlII Digestion of Plasmid pLR4 and Isolation of 7.7kb EcoRI HindIlI Fragment The desired digestion and isolation was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 12A except that plasmid pLR4, rather than plasmid pJL121, was used. The desired 7.7kb fragment was dissolved in TE buffer and stored at 40C. for future use.C. Ligation of 19.0kb EcoRI HindIII Fragment of Plasmid pJL121 and 7.7kb EcoRI HindIII Fragment of Plasmid pLR4 The desired ligation was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 8C except that the 19.0kb EcoRI HindIII fragment of plasmid pJL121 and the z7.7 RcoRI HindIII fragment of plasmid pLR4, rather than the 6.Okb SalI fragment of plasmid SCP2 and SalI digested pBR325, were used. The resultant ligated DNA constituted the desired plasmid pJLl90 which was then stored at 40C. for future use. A restriction site and functional map of plasmid pJLl90 is presented in Figure 4 of the accompanying drawings.The restriction site map was determined from plasmid transformed into E. coli K12 C600Rk k . Example 13 Construction of E. coli K12 C600Rk k pJLl90 The desired construction was made in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7 except that plasmid pJLl90, rather than plasmids pJL120 and pJL121, was used. The resultant colonies were selected and tested for the expected phenotype AmpR,TetS and size by conventional means as in Example 11 and constituted the desired E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL190 transformants. The transformants were then conventionally cultured for subsequent production and isolation of plasmid pJLl90 according to known procedures. Example 14 Isolation of Plasmid pJL192 Plasmid pJL192, which confers high resistance to antibiotic neomycin 10 g. ml. , can be conventionally isolated from E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL192, a strain deposited and made part of the permanent stock culture collection of the Northern Regional ResearchLaboratory, Peoria, Illinois under the accession number 15040. The restriction site map of plasmid pJL192 appears not to be distinguishable from the plasmid pJLl90 map presented in Figure 4. Example 15 Construction of Plasmid pJL195 A. EcoRI SalI Digestion of Plasmid pJL125 and Isolation of 5.4kb EcoRI SalI Fragment The desired digestion and isolation was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 12A except that plasmid pJ125 and SalI restriction enzyme and reaction mix, rather than plasmid pJL121 and HindIII restriction enzyme and reaction mix, were used. In addition, SalI EcoRI diluent was used. The resultant 5.4kb EcoRI SalI fragment was dissolved in TE buffer and stored at 40C.for future use. SAlI EcoRI diluent was prepared with the following composition 940mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 55mM MgCl2B. EcoRI Partial SalI Digestion of Plasmid pLR4 and Isolation of z7.5kb EcoRI Partial SalI Fragment The SalI digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 12A except plasmid pLR4, rather than pJL121, was used.Since only a partial SalI digestion was desired, the resultant mixture was incubated first at 370C. for 15 minutes and then at 650C. for 10 minutes. Following cooling to 40C., the resultant partial SalI 7.7kb linear fragment was conventionally isolated by AGE DE52 electroelution. The desired DNA was dissolved inTE buffer and digested with EcoRI restriction enzyme in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 6A except that the above fragment, rather than the SalI fragment of SCP2 , was used. The desired 7.5kb EcoRI SalI fragment the largest possible EcoRI SalI fragment was isolated by AGE DE52 electroelution, dissolved in TE buffer, and then stored at 40C. for future use.C. Ligation of 5.4kb EcoRI SalI Fragment of Plasmid pJL125 and 7.5kb EcoRI Partial Sail Fragment of Plasmid pLR4 The desired ligation was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 8C except that the 5.4kb EcoRI SalI fragment of plasmid pJL125 and the 7.5kb EcoRI partial SalI fragment of plasmid pLR4, rather than the 6.Okb Sail fragment of plasmid SCP2 and SalI digested pBR325, were used. The resultant ligated DNA constituted the desired plasmid pJL195 and was stored at 40C. for future use. A restriction site map of plasmid pJL195 is presented inFigure 5 of the accompanying drawings.The restriction site map was determined with plasmid isolation fromE. coli K12 C600Rk Mk Example 16 Construction of E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL195 The desired construction was made in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7 except that plasmid pJL195, rather than plasmids pJL120 and pJL121, was used. The resultant colonies were tested for the expected phenotype AmpR, TetS and size as in Example 11 and constituted the desired E.coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL195 transformants. The transformants were then conventionally cultured for subsequent production and isolation of plasmid pJL195 according to known procedures. Example 17 Construction of Plasmid pJL114 A. Partial BamHI Digestion of Plasmid SCP2 The desired digestion was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 6A except that plasmid SCP2 isolated, in accordance with the teaching of Example 1, from Streptomyces coelicolorA3 2 , a strain deposited and made part of the permanent stock culture collection of the Northern RegionalResearch Laboratory under the accession number 15042 , and BamHI restriction enzyme and reaction mix , rather than plasmid SCP2 and EcoRI restriction enzyme and reaction mix, were used. The desired DNA was stored at 40C. for subsequent use. Reaction mix for BamHI restriction enzyme was prepared with the following composition 1000mM Tris HCl, pH 7.4 100x t MgC12 B. Ligation of BamHI Digested Plasmid SCP2 and BamHI Digested Plasmid pBR322 The desired ligation was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 6C except that the BamHI digest of plasmid SCP2 prepared in Example 17A and BamHI digested plasmid pBR322 prepared in Example 4B , rather than plasmids SCP2 and pBR325, were used. The resultant DNA was stored at 40C. and constituted the desired 34.6kb plasmid pJL114. Example 18 Construction of E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL114 The desired construction as made in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 7 except that plasmid pJL114, rather than plasmids pJL120 and pJL121, was used. The resultant colonies were selected and tested for the expected phenotype AmpR, TetS , and constituted the desired E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL114 transformants. The ampicillin resistant, tetracycline sensitive colonies were isolated according to known procedures, cultured, and then conventionally identified by restriction enzyme and agarose gel electrophoretic analysis of the constitutive plasmids. It was revealed upon analysis that the BamHI restriction enzyme had cut only one of the BglII restriction sites of SCP2 during the digestion described in Example 17A. Since this event is rare and has not been repeated, E. coli K12 C600Rk Mk pJL114 has been deposited and made part of the permanent stock culture collection of the Northern Regional Research LaboratorPeoria, Illinois under the accession number B 1503. strain is available as a preferred source and stock reservoir of plasmid pJL114. A restriction site map oft plasmid pJL114 is presented in Figure 5 of the accompanying drawings. Example 19 Construction of Streptomyces griseofuscus pJL120A. Growth of Cultures for Preparation of Protoplasts A vegative innoculum was conventionally prepared by growing the strain under submerged conditions for 20 hours at 30 C. in TSB supplemented with 4 glycine. The culture was homogenized and innoculated at a 1 20 dilution into the same medium and then grown for 18 hours at 300C.B. Transformation Using about 20 yg. of plasmid pJL120 DNA and 1x109 protoplasts of Streptomyces griseofuscus, a strain deposited and made part of the permanent stock culture collection of the American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Maryland, from which it is available to the public under the accession number ATCC 23916, the desired transformation was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of InternationalPublication of International Patent Application No.PCT BG79 00095 No. W079 01169, Example 2. C. Selection To assay for transformation even at low frequencies, two procedures were employed. 1 Pock assay Spores were harvested from the regeneration plates containing confluent lawns of regenerated protoplasts as follows. About 10 ml. of sterile distilled water was added to the plate and the surface of the culture gently scraped with a loop to remove the spores.The resulting spore suspension was centrifuged at 20,000 rpm for 10 minutes. The supernatant was discarded and the remaining spore pellet resuspended in .3 ml. of 20 v v glycerol. Serial dilutions of the preparation were made down to 10 5 by successive transfer of .1 ml. of the spore suspension to .9 ml. of 20 v v glycerol. The spores can then be stored at 200C. with little loss of viability. About .1 ml. aliquots of some of the dilution series e.g. 10 1, 10 , 10 4 of each of the harvested plates were then transferred to R2 medium Hopwood and Wright, 1978, Molecular and General Genetics 162 30 plates which had sufficient spores of the Streptomyces griseofuscus strain originally used in the transformation procedure to produce a confluent lawn. This procedure can also be carried out with the substitution of YMX agar .5 yeast extract .5 malt extract, .1 dextrose and 2 agar . Transformants can typically be detected after 3 days growth at 300C. by the appearance of pocks , a property expressed by spores containing the plasmid in expressible form within the lawn.The transformants were recovered by conventionally picking spores from the centre of the pock to an aga plate of YMX medium Hopwood 1967, Bacteriological Review, 31 373 . 2 Back transformation to E. coli K12C600Rk M The spores are collected as in 1 above but are used to innoculate 50 ml. of TSB supplemented with .4 glycine. The culture is grown for 20 hours at 300C. and the cells are harvested followed by isolation of DNA. Isolation is as disclosed in Example 1B except that centrifugation with CsCl and propidium iodide is omitted. Subsequently, 50 p1. of this DNA is used to transform E coli K12 C600Rk Mk as disclosed inExample 7B. Plasmids in the transformants are verified and identified by conventional means as taught inExample 11. Example 20Construction of Streptomyces griseofuscus pJL114,S. griseofuscus JLl2l, S. griseofuscus pJL125,S. griseofuscus pJL180, and S. griseofuscus pJL181. The desired constructions were each individually and respectively made, selected, and recovered in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 20 except that plasmids pJL114, pJL121, pJL125, pJL180, and pJL181, rather than plasmid pJL120, were appropriately used for the individual construction. Example 21 Construction of Streptomyces griseofuscus pJLl90A. Transformation The desired transformation was carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 19B except that plasmid pJLl90, rather than plasmid pJL120, was used. B. Selection The desired transformants were selected for neomycin resistance by overlaying the regenerating protoplasts with R2 medium top agar containing sufficient neomycin to bring the final plate concentration to 1 pg. ml. The resultant Streptomyces griseofuscus pJLl90 transformants were then tested for the expected pock morphology in substantial accordance with the procedure of Example 20B. Example 22 Construction of Streptomyces griseofuscus pJL195 The desired construction was made, selected, and recovered in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 21 except that plasmid pJL195, rather than plasmid pJLl90, was used. Example 23 Construction of Streptomyces griseofuscusz pJLlC 2 The desired construction was made, selected, and recovered in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 22 except that plasmid pJL192 and, in the selection procedure, top agar containing sufficient neomycin to bring the final plate concentration to 10 pg. ml., rather than plasmid pJL195 and top agar containing sufficient neomycin to bring the final plate concentration to 1 g. ml., were used. Example 24Construction of Streptomyces fradiae pJL120, S.fradiae pJL114, S. fradiae pJL121, S. fradiae pJL125,S. fradiae pj180, S. fradiae pJLl8l, S. fradiae pJLl90, S. fradiae pJL195, and S. fradiae pJLl92 The desired constructions are individually and respectively made, selected, and recovered in substantial accordance with the respective teachings ofExamples 19, 20, 21, 22, and 23 except that Streptomyces fradiae, rather than S. griseofuscus, is used. In addition, the TSB medium for protoplasting and growingS. fradiae was modified and contained only .2 glycine. Example 25Construction of Streptomyces lividans pJL120, S.lividans pJL114, S. lividans pJL121, S. lividans pJL125, S. lividans pJL180, S. lividans pJL181,S. lividans pJL190, S. lividans pJL195, and S. lividans pJL192 The desired constructions are individually and respectively made, selected, and recovered in substantial accordance with the respective teachings ofExamples 19, 20, 21, 22, and 23 except that Streptomyces lividans, rather than S. griseofuscus, is used.In addition, the media for protoplasting and growing S.lividans is as described in International Publication of International Patent Application No. PCT BG79 00095 No. W079 01169, Example 2. Example 26 Isolation of Plasmid pJL192 Mutant that Confers High Resistance To Antibiotic Neomycin Streptomyces griseofuscus pJL190 was isolated as described in Example 21. Analysis of growth of colonies on nutrient agar supplemented with different concentrations of neomycin revealed that S. griseofuscus pJLl90 exhibited resistance to 1.0 Vg. ml. of neomycin.S. griseofuscus was spread conventionally on nutrient agar plates supplemented with 10 pg. ml. of neomycin.A colony was discovered that exhibited growth at this high level of neomycin. After repeated analysis verified that the colony exhibited the aforementioned resistance, the colony was designated S. griseofuscus pJL192. The plasmid, pJL192 was shuttled into E. coliK12 C600Rk SAk by back transformation as taught inExample 19C. The restriction site map of pJL192 appears not to be distinguishable from pJLl90. Example 27 Isolation of Plasmid pJLl99 Mutant that Confers High Resistance to Antibiotic Neomycin The desired isolation is carried out in substantial accordance with the teaching of Example 26 except that Streptomyces griseofuscus pJL195 prepared in Example 22 , rather than S. griseofuscus pJLl90, was used. A colony that exhibited high resistance to neomycin was designated S. griseofuscus pJLl99.The plasmid, pJLl99, was shuttled into E. coli K12C600Rk Mk by back transformation as taught in Example l9C. The restriction site map of pJLl99 appears not to be distinguishable from pJL195. Those skilled in the art will recognize that plasmid pJLl99 can also be conventionally constructed by substituting the neomycin resistance conferring fragment of plasmid pJL192 prepared in Examples 15 and 27 for the pLR4 derived neomycin resistance conferring fragment of plasmid pJL195. Such a substitution thus also results in the desired plasmid pJLl99. Example 28 Construction of Plasmid pLR2A. Hindlil Digestion of Plasmid pIJ6 About 20 l. 20 g. of plasmid pIJ6 DNA, disclosed in Thompson et al., 1980, Nature 286 525, 5 p1. BSA Bovine Serum albumin, 1 mg. ml. , 19 l.water, 1 Nil. of HindIII containing 3 New England BioLabs units restriction enzyme , and 5 l. reaction mix were incubated at 370C. for 2 hours. The reaction was terminated by the addition of about 50 Nil. of 4M ammonium acetate and 200 l. of 95 ethanol. The resultant DNA precipitate was washed twice in 70 ethanol, dried in vacuo, suspended in 20 Nil. of TE buffer, and frozen at 200C. for storage.B. HindIII Digestion of Plasmid pBR322 About 8 Nil. 4 g. of plasmid pBR322 DNA, 5 l. reaction mix, 5 Nil. BSA 1 mg. ml. , 31 Nil. water, and 1 l. of HindIII restriction enzyme were incubated at 370C. for 2 hours. After the reaction was terminated by incubating at 600C. for 10 minutes, about 50 Nil. of ammonium acetate and 200 Nil. of 95 ethanol were added. The resultant DNA precipitate was washed twice in 708 ethanol, dried in vacuo, and suspended in 45 Nil. of water.C. Ligation of HindIII Digested Plasmids pIJ6 and pBR322 About 20 Nil. of HindIII treated plasmid pIJ6 from Example 2A , 20 Nil. of HindIII treated plasmid pBR322 from Example 2B , 5 Nil. BSA 1 mg. ml. , 1 Nil. of T4 DNA ligase, and 5 l. ligation mix were incubated at 160C. for 4 hours. The reaction was terminated by the addition of about 50 Nil. 4M ammonium acetate and 200 l. of 95 ethanol. The resultant DNA precipitate was washed twice in 70 ethanol, dried in vacuo, and suspended in TE buffer. The suspended DNA constituted the desired plasmid pLR2. Example 29 Construction of E. coli K12 HBl0l pLR2 About 10 ml. of frozen competent E. coli K12HB101 cells Bolivar et al., 1977, Gene 2 75 93 were pelleted by centrifugation and then suspended in about 10 ml. of 0.01M sodium chloride. Next, the cells were pelleted again, resuspended in about 10 ml. of 0.03M calcium chloride, incubated on ice for 20 minutes, pelleted a third time, and finally, resuspended in 1.25 ml. of 0.03.N1 calcium chloride. The resultant cell suspension was competent for subsequent transformation. Plasmid pLR2 in TE buffer prepared inExample 2C was ethanol precipitated, suspended in 150 Nil. of 30mM calcium chloride solution, and gently mixed in a test tube with about 200 l. of competent E. coli K12 HB101 cells. The resultant mixture was incubated on ice for about 45 minutes and then at 420C.for about 1 minute. Next, about 3 ml. of L broth Bertani, 1951, J. Bacteriology 62 293 containing 50 pg. ml. of ampicillin was added. The mixture was incubated with shaking at 370C. for 1 hour and then plated on L agar Miller, 1972, Experiments in MolecularGenetics, Cold Spring Harbor Labs, Cold Spring Harbor,New York containing ampicillin. Surviving colonies were selected and tested for the expected phenotype AmpR, TetS , and constituted the desired E.coli K12HB101 pLR2 transformants. Representative plasmids and transformants that can be constructed in accordance with the foregoing teaching include the following listed below in Tables 1 and 2. Table 1 Representative PlasmidExample Plasmid Size E.coli Streptomyces no. Name ln kb Marker Marker Construction 30 pJL122 24.4 AmpR, TetR M SstI Delection of pJL120 31 pJL123 27.8 AmpR, TetR M BglII Delection of pJL121 32 pJL124 21.1 24.2 AmpR, TetR M Partial PstI Deletion of pJL120 33 pJL126 9.1 10.6 AmpR, TetR M Partial PstI Deletion of pJL120 34 pJL176 32.5 CMR, TetR P 16.6kb PstI and extraveous 10.0kb PstI of SCP2 into PstI Site of pBR325 35 pJL1200 35.8 AmpR, TetR M SCP2 EcoRI Site into pBR325 EcoRI Site 36 pJL1201 35.8 AmpR, TetR M Reverse Orientation of pJL1200 37 pJL1202 24.4 AmpR, TetR M SstI Deletion of pJL1200 38 pJL1203 27.8 AmpR, TetR M BglII Deletion of pJL1201 39 pJL1204 21.1 24.2 AmpR, TetR M Partial PstI Deletion of pJL1200 40 pJL1205 10.2 AmpR M SalI Deletion of pJL1201 41 pJL1206 9.1 10.6 AmpR, TetR M Partial XorII Deletion of pJL1200 42 pJL1706 32.5 CMR, TetR P 10.6kb PstI and extraneous 10.0kb PstI of SCP2 into PstI Site of pBR325 43 pJL1716 22.5 CMR, TetR P 16.6kb PstI of SCP into PstI Site of pBR325 44 pJL3176 22.5 CMR, TetR P 16.6kb PstI of SCP2 into PstI Site of pBR325 Table 1 continuedExample Plasmid Size E.coli Streptomyces no.Name ln kb Marker Marker Construction 45 pJL1800 12.6 AmpR, CMR P 6.0kb SalI of SCP2 into Sall Site of pBR325 46 pJL1801 12.6 AmpR, CMR P Reverse Orientation of pJL1800 47 pJL1900 25.9 AmpR M, NeoR 19.0kb EcoRI HindIII of pJL1201 and 7.7kb EcoRI HindIII of pLR4 48 pJL1902 25.9 AmpR M, NeoR 19.0kb EcoRI HindIII of pJL1201 and 7.7kb EcoRI HindIII of pLR4 49 pJL1905 12.1 AmpR M, NeoR 5.4kb EcoRI HindIII of pJL1205 and 7.5kb EcoRI Partial SalI of pPR4 50 pJL193 6.9 AmpR ThioR 1.35kb BamHI of pLR2 into BamHI of pBR 328 51 pJL196 12.1 AmpR M, NeoR 5.4kb EcoRI SalI of pJL125 into 7.5kb EcoRI partial SalI of pJL192 52 pJL197 13.1 AmpR M, NeoR, ThioR 1kb BclI of pJL193 into partial BamHI of pJL196, orientation such that the ClaI site of the 1kb BclI fragment is proximal to the SalI site of the PBR322 fragment and such that the SalI site of the 1kb BclI site is proximal to the neomycin resistance gene Table 1 continuedExample Plasmid Size E.coli Streptomyces no. Name ln kb Marker Marker Construction 53 pJL1907 13.1 AmpR M, NeoR, ThioR 1kb BclI of pJL193 into partial BamHI of pJL1905 54 pJL198 13.1 AmpR M, NeoR, ThioR Same as pJL197 except the orein tation of the BclI fragment is reversed 55 pHJL212 13.9 AmpR M, NeoR, ThioR 1kb BclI fragment of pJL193 into partial BamHI of pJL195, orientation and insertion the same as pJL198 56 pHJL213 13.9 AmpR M, NeoR, ThioR Same as pHJL212 except the orein tation and insertion the same as pJL197 Table 2 Representative Transformants 1. Streptomyces R pR1 wherein R is griseofuscus, ambofaciens, fradiae, or lividans and R is independently pJL122, pJL123, pJL124, pJL126, pJL176, pJL1200, pJL1201, pJL1202, pJL1203, pJL1204, pJL1205, pJL1206, pJL1706, pJL1800, pJL1801, pJL1900, pJL1902, pJL1905, pJL196, pJL197, pJL1907, pJL198, pHJL212 and pHJL213.2 E.coli K12 R pR wherein R is c600Rk Mk , 294, C600 or RV308 and R is independently as defined above.