# OLIGONUCLEOTIDE THERAPEUTIC AGENT AND METHODS OF MAKING SAME

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, LI, NL, SE

## Description
This invention relates to a therapeutic agent for selectively blocking the translation of mRNA into a targeted protein by utilizing hybridization techniques of the type having messenger ribonucleic acid attached to oligonucleotides for In the field of pharmacology, the use of therapeutic agents has long been recognized as an effective way to control diseases. Such agents are often used in treating bacterial or viral infection, chemical imbalances and the like, to cure, or at least mitigate, the diseased state. Although researchers occasionally discover new therapeutic agents after major breakthroughs have elucidated the molecular basis of a disease, more often they must rely on observing for antibiosis or modifying the chemical structures of functionally related chemicals. With respect to antibiotic agents, some are quite effective at the outset, but over time many organisms become resistant or totally immune to their action. Additionally, very few effective anti viral agents have ever been developed, and without explicit, detailed knowledge of an infecting organism s physiology, the development of new operative agents remains haphazard. In PNAS USA vol. 75, No. 1 1978 , pages 280 to 284 a particular tridecamer complementary to 13 nucleotides of the 3 and 5 reiterated terminal sequence of Rous Sarcoma virus 35 RNA is described. The tridecamer is observed to inhibit the virus production in chick embryo fibroblast tissue cultures. It is contemplated that the tridecamer might hybridize with the repetitive terminal sequence of the RNA and might interfere with the circularization step of the pro virus DNA. A corresponding tridecamer is described in PNAS USA vol. 75, No. 1 1978 , pages 285 to 288. The document refers to the ability of the tridecamer to prime virus RNA and to inhibit protein synthesis from the virion RNA. It is speculated that the inhibition might be due to hybridization of the tridecamer near potential initiation sites for viral protein synthesis. In PNAS USA vol. 75, No. 3 1978 , pages 1271 to 1221 and PNAS USA vol. 74, No. 10, 1977 , pages 4370 to 4374 Angewandte Chemie International Edition, vol. 9 1970 , No. 9, pages 678 to 688 describes the use of modified nucleosides or nucleotides as antimetabolic agents for inhibiting the nucleic acid metabolism and particularly the synthesis of virus induced cDNA. The modified nucleosides or nucleotides are competing with their unmodified analogues for specific binding sites and positions within complex structures thereby blocking the physiological functions of the resulting products. It is further considered that the compounds may have immunological effect since DNA synthesis inhibitors are effective in suppressing the proliferation of sensitized lymphocytes and cell mediated immunity. In this context reference is also made to oligonucleotides on the basis of the observation that antibody stimulation occurred with a gross mixture of DNA digest, the optimal size of the oligomers being indicated as tri to hexanucleotides. It is speculated that the modified oligonucleotides would compete with their naturally occurring analogues for the protein binding sites, thereby blocking antibody production particularly in auto immune diseases. Finally, in Biochemistry, vol. 16, No. 9 1977 , pages 1988 to 1996 the preparation of a particular modified trinucleotide is described, which is complementary to a three base sequence common to the aminoacid accepting stem of most tRNAs. The document reports in vitro experiments, showing that the triplet is bound to tRNAs and inhibits amino acylation at a rate of 39 at 37 C. It was further shown that the triplet passes into the cells in vivo unspecificially reducing peptide synthesis for an interval of about 24 hours. No therapeutic agent has up to now been described in the prior art, by means of which it would be possible to selectively block the translation of mRNA into a particular, targeted protein without effecting the synthesis of other proteins. Thus, there exists a definite need for a therapeutic agent that is versatile and inexpensive and yet both extremely specific and effective. The present invention fulfils these needs. The present invention provides a methodology of identifying and constructing therapeutic agents for use in living organisms that substantially reduces the uncertainty surrounding the development of new antagonists, significantly increasing the scope of According to the invention a stabilized oligonucleotide, preferably in a phosphotriester form, is provided having a base sequence substantially complementary to a portion of messenger ribonucleic acid coding for a biological component of an organism. Due to the complementary nature of the oligonucleotide and the messenger ribonucleic acid, the two components can readily hybridize under appropriate conditions to control synthesis of the organism s biological component and, if the protein is vital to the organism s viability, to act as an antibiotic. A method, in accordance with the present invention, of developing therapeutic agents may typically include the steps of providing a base sequence of an organism s nucleic acid that contains at least a portion of the genetic information for a biological component of the organism, and synthesizing an oligonucleotide the sequence of which is derived from the base sequence, for subsequent hybridization with the messenger ribonucleic acid specific for the biological component. The biological component may be a vital protein, or simply a hormone such as the gonadotropin, follicle stimulating hormone. The order of the base sequence may be determined from deoxyribonucleic acid DNA or ribonucleic acid RNA , preferably messenger ribonucleic acid mRNA . Alternatively, the desired oligonucleotide base sequence may be determined from the biological component s sequence, as when the biological component is a protein. The oligonucleotide of the invention has fourteen to twenty three bases, and for increased stability, is transformed to a more stable form, such as a phosphotriester form, to inhibit degradation during use. To produce large quantities of the oligonucleotide, it may be synthesized chemically, such as in automated machines, or inserted into a plasmid, such as pBR322, for cloning. The plasmid insertion may be accomplished with linker base sequences, such as GATTCGAATC or CTAAGCTTAG, which are susceptible to degradation by Hind III restrictive nuclease or Alu I restriction nuclease. When the order of the base sequence has not been determined, the base sequence can be cloned and then cross hybridized against messenger ribonucleic acid from the other sources to remove base sequences non specific to the target. Another aspect of the present invention is a method of selectively controlling activity of one or more biological components in a cell without substantially interfering with the activity of other biological components in the cell. The method includes the steps of forming an oligonucleotide having a base sequence substantially complementary to a portion of mRNA coding for the specific biological component, and introducing the oligonucleotide into the cell for hybridization with the selected mRNA. This causes blocking of the translation of the mRNA into protein. The oligonucleotide has fourteen to twenty three bases. The target mRNA can code for a protein, such as the hormone, follicle stimulating hormone. This hormone has an alpha and beta chain, and the oligonucleotide should be specific for the mRNA coding for the beta chain to avoid cross reacting with other gonadatropin mRNA. A suitable oligonucleotide base sequence would be ACCACGCGR₁CCR₂ATGACGATGTG, wherein R₁ is G or T and R₂ is also G or T. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, a method is provided for inhibiting the infection of a host organism by a foreign organism. This method entails isolating a base sequence containing at least a portion of the genetic information coding for a vital protein from the foreign organism s nucleic acid synthesizing an oligonucleotide, the order of which is derived from the base sequence and substantially complementary to the messenger ribonucleic acid coding for the protein and treating the foreign organism with an effective amount of the oligonucleotide to hybridize with a portion of the messenger ribonucleic acid and block translation of the protein. The oligonucleotide, which can be a deoxyribonucleotide, is transformed to a more stable form, such as a phosphotriester form, to inhibit degradation, and the order of the sequence determined prior to its synthesis. Further, to increase the oligonucleotide s specificity, it may be cross hybridized against mRNA from different organisms, such as the host organism, to remove non unique oligonucleotide sequences. It will be appreciated from the foregoing that the present invention satisfies a long existing need for improved methods of developing therapeutic agents for use in living organisms, and represents a significant advance over previously available methods, principally because it is very versatile, and yet provides a very specific agent against a biological component. Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following more detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Referring now to the drawings, and particularly to FIGS. 1 and 2, there is shown the so called central dogma of the molecular biology of life. Basically, it is now accepted that deoxyribonucleic acid DNA carries the genetic code for almost all living organisms. The code exists in the form of an organized sequence of four nucleotide bases attached to a phosphorylated, deoxyribose sugar backbone. Generally, DNA exists in the form of a double strand helix formed of two oppositely directed strands, which are held together in an opposing manner by various weak forces. A primary constituent of these weak forces are the so called hydrogen bonds that exist between nuclectides on the opposing strands. The four bases, adenine A , cytosine C , guanine G , and thymine T , form hydrogen bonds generally in only one fashion A with T and C with G. Thus, by knowing the sequence of one strand, the sequence of the second strand can be readily determined. Another aspect of the central dogma is that proteins are produced indirectly from the DNA strand, through messenger ribonucleic acid mRNA . Apparently, mRNA, which has the same structure as single stranded DNA except with a ribose backbone and with uracil U replacing thymine, is transcribed directly from one DNA strand and has an essentially opposite base sequence, i.e., if a DNA strand sequence is 5 ...ACGT...3 the transcribed mRNA sequence is 3 ...UGCA...5 . An additional aspect of the central dogma relates to the translation of mRNA into proteins. Briefly, excluding initiation sites and the like, each three nucleotide base grouping triplet code codes for one amino acid of a protein. Therefore, by knowing the mRNA sequence of a protein, its amino acid sequence can generally be determined. However, the reverse is not true, that is, knowing the amino acid sequence does not guarantee precise knowledge of the mRNA sequence. This stems from the fact that there exist 64 4³ possible triplet codes, yet there exists only about twenty amino acids, allowing some amino acids to have multiple triplet codes. The similarity in the structure of DNA and mRNA strands creates interesting effects. Most notably, if complementary DNA and RNA strands exist contemporaneously in a solution, under certain established conditions the strands can anneal, forming hybrids. One important factor in proper annealing is the melting temperature, which can be calculated according to Britten et al, Methods of Enzymology 29 363 1974 . In accordance with the present invention, a synthetic oligonucleotide having a base sequence of 14 to 23 bases capable of substantially matching that of a chosen mRNA is provided for hydridization with that mRNA. Once such a hybrid exists, the translation of the mRNA into protein becomes significantly inhibited. If the inhibited protein is vital to an organism s survival, the organism s viability, i.e., either growth or continued life, is jeopardized. Importantly, the oligonucleotide can be designed specifically for the mRNA coding for just one protein, and should not cross react with mRNA for other proteins. The method of developing the oligonucleotide entails basically two steps. As described more fully below, a possible first step is to determine the appropriate sequence of the mRNA specific for the protein to be inhibited, and a second step is to manufacture an oligonucleotide complementary to the mRNA. Once made, the oligonucleotide is treated into e.g. a phosphotriester form for increased stability. A variety of techniques exists for determining nucleic acid base sequences. In many instances the sequence of the mRNA or the gene have been determined and published in the biochemical literature. In fact, researchers have determined the complete nucleotide sequence for the SV 40 virus Reddy et al, Science Still another method for determining nucleic acid base sequences requires resolving the amino acid sequence from the target protein. After determining the amino acid sequence of the target protein in purified form, a sequential degradation utilizing commercially available protein sequences e.g. from Beckman Instruments, Fullerton, California can be used to provide the amino acid sequence. Once this has been obtained, knowledge of the triplet code can be applied to give prospective base sequences. An example of such a process for the hormone glucagon can be found in Tullis et al, Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications Once the sequence of the appropriate nucleic acid and the desired mRNA sequence have been determined, an oligonucleotide, such as deoxyribonucleotide, complementary to the mRNA can be constructed. A number of synthetic techniques are known, most typical is the diester approach described by Agarwal et al, Nature 227 If the desired oligonucleotide sequence is unknown, a suitable oligonucleotide can be prepared as follows. After isolating mRNA from a target organism, multiple copies are made, preferably in the form of DNA, so called copy DNA cDNA . This cDNA is then cross hybridized against mRNA isolated from other organisms, and any cDNA hybridizing is removed. The remaining cDNA is specific only to the target organism, and can serve as the therapeutic agent. In order to obtain a high degree of specificity, an oligomer of 14 to 23 bases is constructed. Although shorter sequences would work, these sequences provide higher specificity. This can readily be seen mathematically. Whereas a ten unit polymer chosen from four bases can have 4¹⁰ 1,048,576 random combinations, a 20 unit polymer has 4²⁰ random combinations, which equals 1.09 x 10¹² 1,090,000,000, 000 . In spite of the added difficulty in making oligonucleotides of twenty units in comparison to ten bases, it is warranted because the exponential increase in complexity reduces undesirable cross reactivity. It has been estimated that a mammalian cell contains about 2x10⁸ nucleotides of RNA complexity or, in other words, approximately 200 million nucleotides of unique sequence mRNA, which is equivalent to about 30,000 mRNA sequences. The probability that one of those sequences contains a randomly chosen 20 unit polymer is approximately one in fifty five hundred. In comparison, a ten unit polymer has about a one hundred and ninety to one chance for random cross reaction. The present invention is illustrated by, but not limited to, the following examples. SV 40 virus manufactures a vital protein commonly known as the T protein or T antigen protein . As noted earlier, the complete genetic code for the SV 40 virus has been determined, and it is known that residues 5091 to 5071 on the viral genome code for a portion of the T protein mRNA. The sequence of these residues, the viral T protein mRNA sequence, and the designed T protein specific oligonucleotide are shown in Fig. 3. In this case, the T protein specific oligonucleotide is complementary to the viral T protein mRNA, and identical to the portion of the viral DNA code. Prior to testing the effectiveness of the T protein specific oligonucleotide Further testing requires growth of S 40 virus. For purposes of these experiments, SV 40 virus is grown and titered in African green monkey cells, such as the cell line BSC 1, according to Hopps et al, Journal of Immunology The isolation of SV 40 mRNA can be accomplished as follows. Total RNA is first obtained by the guanidine hydrochloric acid extraction procedure using glassware previously baked and treated with diethylpyrocarbonate to remove traces of RNase as taught by Cox et al, Methods in Enzymology This purified A mRNA containing the viral mRNA sequences can hybridize to the synthetic oligonucleotide at 37 Actually, while any theoretically suitable temperature may be used for the hybrid formation, temperatures ranging from 0 For hybridization testing the ratio of the synthetic oligonucleotide to its mRNA complement is generally about 30 1. Lower ratios are acceptable, however, sequences below about 3 1 can cause lower hybrid formation. Control reactions utilizing yeast RNA or globin mRNA can be used, and should show no detectable hybrids, indicating hybridization specificity only to SV 40 mRNA. Also, thermal denaturation profile studies and comparison of the kinetics of hybridization can confirm that the synthetic oligonucleotide reacts only with SV 40 mRNA sequences. Once it is shown that the oligonucleotide hybridizes to the isolated SV 40 mRNA, Testing of the oligonucleotide The synthetic oligonucleotide of the present invention may be mass produced according to common cloning techniques, such as those developed in the art to clone the gene for proinsulin. Alternatively, the oligonucleotide can be chemically synthesized in commercially available equipment described previously . Briefly, the cloning method entails enzymatic insertion of the oligonucleotide into a bacterial gene carried on a larger piece of DNA, known as a plasmid. The plasmid can be incorporated into a suitable host bacteria, and multiple copies made as the bacteria multiply as in Boyer and Cohen, U. S. Patent No. 4,237,224. More particularly, and with reference to FIGS. 4 and 5, the cloning plasmid designated as pBR322, available from Bethesda Research Labs, Inc., Rockville, Maryland, can be used to mass produce the T protein specific oligonucleotide. Using standard techniques, the oligonucleotide is converted to double stranded form and then a terminal 5 PO₄ is added to each of the 5 termini with polynucleotide kinase to permit subsequent joining through T 4 ligase. The reaction conditions for forming the 5 termini can be found in Richardson, Progress in Nucleic Acids Research After purification of the double stranded oligonucleotide by chromatography on hydroxylapatite columns, it is inserted into the plasmid. Because the oligonucleotide is blunt ended, the plasmid should not have uneven or sticky ends. To remove sticky ends from the plasmid, S1 nuclease or other single strand specific nucleases can be utilized. A general description of methods for using restriction nucleases can be found in Nathans and Smith, Annual Review of Biochemistry For best results, a linker system between the oligonucleotide and the plasmid can be utilized, specifically a linker having both Hind III and Alu I enzymatic cleaving sites. As seen in FIG. 4, one such linker has a sequence 5 ... CTAAGCTTAG...3 . This sequence represents a double stranded, bisymmetric molecule containing a recognition sequence both for Alu I AGCT and for Hind III AAGCTT . Utilizing DNA ligase under standard conditions, this molecule can be ligated to the oligonucleotide to form linker oligonucleotide linker molecules. Similarly, the linked oligonucleotide can be introduced into linearized blunt ended, Hind III cleaved pBR322 carrier molecules. After ligation, the plasmid has resumed its covalently closed circular configuration with the linker oligonucleotide incorporated, all of which is shown in FIG. 5 as pT protein oligonucleotide. The recircularized plasmid is then used to transform a suitable bacterial host such as E. coli. The methods for transformation and selection of transformants are known in the art and described in detail in Cohen and Boyer, U.S. Patent No. 4,237,224. Once the transformed bacteria containing the ligated plasmid p oligonucleotide have been grown to high density and produced large amounts of the ligated plasmid, the oligonucleotide is ready for purification. After the plasmid has been removed from the mature cells, the plasmid is treated with appropriate restriction endonucleases. As illustrated in FIG. 5, the plasmid is first cleaved with Hind III to give various by products, including linker T protein oligonucleotide linker and fragments of the original plasmid. These are readily separated utilizing gel electrophoresis or high pressure liquid chromatography. Further cleavage of the isolated linker oligonucleotide linker with the endonuclease Alu I yields pure double stranded oligonucleotide and partially degraded linker. These can also be separated based on their size differences. As shown in FIG. 6, the oligonucleotide can then be modified to a nuclease resistant phosphotriester form utilizing the reaction described in Miller et al, Biochemistry It is believed that transforming the oligonucleotide to a phosphotriester form will improve the oligonucleotide s stability A synthetic oligonucleotide capable of inhibiting the synthesis of follicle stimulating hormone FSH , a protein hormone produced by the pituitary that functions in the maturation of ova in females and sperm cells in males, can also be constructed. It is known that FSH is composed of two chains, alpha and beta, the amino acid sequence of which has been determined for several animal species. Interestingly, the alpha chain of FSH is common to other gonadotropic hormones, including thyroid stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, and chorionic gonadotropin, while the beta chain varies. Therefore, to selectively shut off the synthesis of FSH without substantially affecting the other gonadotropins, the oligonucleotide must be specific for the mRNA coding for the beta chain. The sequence of the beta chain amino acids 32 through 40 is shown in FIG. 7. As discussed earlier, it is possible to predict the mRNA base sequence for these amino acids, although not with absolute certainty. The points of uncertainty are indicated by the letter X in the predicted mRNA sequence. Thus, the resultant oligonucleotide family consists of eight possible 26 base sequences the potential alternate bases are shown in parentheses below the primary base sequence. By beginning with the projected mRNA sequence for the 33rd through 40th amino acids, it can be seen that four different 23 base oligonucleotides exist that could correspond to the FSH mRNA. The sequences could be as follows, reading from the 5 end GTGTAGCAGTAGCCGGCGCACCA, GTGTAGCAGTATCCGGCGCACCA, GTGTAGCAGTAGCCTGCGCACCA, and GTGTAGCAGTATCCTGCGCACCA. One of these four sequences should be precisely correct and thus able to hybridize fully with the FSH mRNA. To determine the best sequence, a hybridization test against FSH mRNA, with subsequent purification on hydroxylapatite or other suitable column, can be performed as previously described. Once the best sequence has been determined, it is placed in a plasmid or chemically synthesized, as described above, for bulk synthesis. This oligonucleotide should substantially inhibit the synthesis of FSH From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that the present invention provides a systematic method of designing new therapeutic agents for use in living organisms and that this method is versatile and inexpensive. Further, the oligonucleotide produced in accordance with the present invention is extremely effective and specific, enabling selective control of protein synthesis in a living organism. While several particular forms of the invention have been illustrated and described, it will be apparent that various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, it is not intended that the invention be limited, except as by the appended claims.