# Silage cutters.

## Abstract
A silage cutter comprises a blade 195 for cutting around the periphery of a block of silage to be severed from a bulk mass of silage. The blade 195 is mounted on a cutting member 169 which is movable along an arm 147 . The arm 147 is movable along a carrier beam 145 . The movements of the cutting member 169 and the arm 147 are controlled automatically to take the blade 195 around the required path. The orientation of the blade is also controlled automa tically. At each position, the blade 195 executes a down wards movement to make a cut. As well as for severing the block of silage, the blade can also be used to divide the separated block into smaller pieces. The automatic control is effected by electronic circuitry, although in another embodiment, hydraulic control circuitry is used.

## Claims
Claims 1. A silage cutter comprising a cutting element 4 195 which is movable upwardly and downwardly to perform a cutting stroke and which is displaceable to different positions around the periphery of a silage block to be cut from a bulk mass of silage, characterized in that actuating means is provided to cause the cutting strokes and the displacements of the cutting element to succeed one another automatically. 2. A silage cutter as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the actuating means is adapted to cause the displacement of the cutting element 4 195 when the cutting element is in the uppermost position of its cutting stroke and a cutting stroke is initiated by the termination of a displacement along the periphery of the silage block. 3. A silage cutter as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, characterized in that after a silage block has been severed from a bulk mass of silage, the control means causes automatic displacement of the cutting element 4 195 to an initial position without cutting strokes being made. 4. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the actuating means is adapted to effect the automatic sequence of cutting strokes and displacement of the cutting member 4 195 both around a path in the silage and within that path. 5. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the cutting element 4 195 is mounted on a cutting member 3 168 and the cutting member comprises a hydraulic cutting cylinder 19 for effecting the cutting strokes and a hydraulic displacing cylinder 20 for effecting the displacement of the cutting member 3 , the centreline of the cutting cylinder 19 being substantially vertical during operation and the centreline of the displacing cylinder 20 being substantially horizontal during operation. 6. A silage cutter as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that the displacing cylinder 20 is pivotable with respect to the rest of the cutting member 3 about an upwardly extending pivotal shaft 32 . 7. A silage cutter as claimed in claim 5 or 6, characterized in that the cutting cylinder 19 and the displacing cylinder 20 are fastened to a carriage 22 of the cutting member 3 , the carriage 22 being automatically displaceable along a guide 2 . 8. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7, characterized in that control members are provided which are responsive to the beginning and the end of a stroke of the cutting cylinder 19 and of the displacing cylinder 20 these control members initiating a subsequent stroke of one of the cylinders 19, 20 the control members comprising at least one pre controlled, hydraulic valve. 9. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a support 132 of the silage cutter has fastened to it at least one carrier beam 145 along which an arm 147 carrying the cutting element 115 is displaceable and the cutting element 195 is displaceable along the arm 147 independently of the displacement of the arm 147 along the carrier beam 145 , the arm 147 extending substantially horizontally in operation and substantially perpendicular to the carrier beam 145 which is also substantially horizontal in operation. 10. A silage cutter as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that the displacement of the arm 147 along the carrier beam 145 is effected by an electric motor 163 . 11. A silage cutter as claimed in claim 9 or 10, characterized in that the displacement of the cutting element 195 along the arm 147 is effected by a further. electric motor 203 . 12. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 11, characterized in that a cutting member 169 carrying the cutting element 195 comprises a cutting cylinder 170 which is at least substantially vertical during operation and the cutting cylinder 170 is turnable about its centreline relatively to the rest of the cutting member 169 , the cutting member 169 carrying a turning cylinder 184 for turning the cutting cylinder 170 . 13. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 12, characterized in that at least part of the cutting cylinder 170 can be displaced axially from a working position into a transport position, in which the cylinder 170 protrudes not at all or only to a minor extent above the rest of the silage cutter and at least part of the cutting cylinder 170 can be displaced axially from a transport position into a working position by effecting a stroke corresponding with a cutting stroke. 14. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 13, characterized in that the electric direct current motors are reversible. 15. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the sequence of cutting strokes and displacements of the cutting element 4 195 is automatically performed under the control of electronic circuitry. 16. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the sequence of cutting strokes and displacements of the cutting element 4 195 along a path in the silage and or within that path can be preprogrammed. 17. A silage cutter as claimed in claim 15 or 16, characterized in that the electronic circuitry comprises at least one integrated demultiplex circuit 214, 215 controlling operation of the motors 163, 203 , the direction of displacement of the cutting element 195 and the turning cylinder 184 , as well as at least one integrated multiplex circuit 216 controlling the cutting stroke, the demultiplex circuit 214, 215 and the multiplex circuit 216 .being controlled by a counter 213 , the condition of which defines the position of the cutting element 195 relative to the support 132 . 18. A silage cutter as claimed in claim 17, characterized in that the counter 213 can be driven by pulses emanating from a trigger 233 , and the counter 213 being driven by a pulse which corresponds to the attainment of the topmost position of the cutting element 195 relative to the cutting cylinder 170 . 19. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 18, characterized in that switches 206, 209 are positioned at intervals along the carrier beam 145 and along the arm 147 , the switches being actuable by the arm 147 and the cutting member 169 respectively, and the electronic circuitry is designed so that a cutting stroke of the cutting cylinder 170 can only be effected when a respective switch 206 associated with the arm 147 and a switch 209 associated with the carrier beam 145 are both actuated by the cutting member 169 . 20. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 19, characterized in that the turning cylinder 184 can each time be actuated by one of the switches 206 fastened to the arm 147 , which switches, viewed in their order of succession, alternately drive the turning cylinder in a different direction. 21. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of claims 15 to 20, characterized in that the electronic circuitry comprises latches 239, 240 , whose outputs, viewed in the order of succession of the switches arranged on the carrier beam 145 and the arm 147 respectively, define a binary word which corresponds to a position of the cutting member 169 , the binary word being applied to the inputs of at least one comparator 241, 242 and compared with a further word defining a desired place and applied to other inputs of the comparator. 22. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 21, characterized in that the operative positions of the cutting member 169 to be preprogrammed can be set with the aid of a controlpanel connected with the silage cutter but being movable with respect to the silage cutter. 23. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the cutting element 4 195 comprises a blade having a cutting edge 196 which is substantially horizontal during operation. 24. A silage cutter as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the silage cutter can be attached to the lifting device 8 10 of a tractor and is displaceable in an upward direction with respect to the lifting device and fixable in a plurality of positions.

## Description
SILAGE CUTTERS This invention relates to silage cutters comprising at least one cutting element which is upwardly and downwardly movable to perform a cutting stroke and which is displaceable to different positions around the periphery of a silage block to be cut from a bulk mass of silage. Known silage cutters of this kind comprise a guide frequently having the shape of U, viewed on plan, along which a cutting member is adapted to move.A cutting member constructed in the form of a blade having a substantially horizontal cutting edge is made to perform downward and upward cutting strokes by a hydraulic ram each stroke of which is separately actuated by an operator. The subsequent displacement of the blade along the guide has then to be manually adjusted, it being necessary to take full care that each following cut of the blade should slightly overlap the preceding cut in order to avoid undesirable connection of the block to be cut out to the remainder of the silage. These operations are time consuming and may give rise to errors. In order to eliminate these disadvantages the invention provides actuating means to cause the cutting strokes and the displacements of the cutting element to succeed one another automatically. A further disadvantage of known silage cutters stems from the fact that a cut out block has to be subsequently divided into smaller pieces in order to allow the cattle to consume the fodder. This division is carried out either manually or with the aid of dividing equipment which has to be obtained separately. With a silage cutter in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention it is possible not only to cut around the periphery of a block of maximum size, but also to make cuts inside that periphery so that subsequent separate division of the block into small pieces can be dispensed with. Moreover, if desired, only one or more small blocks canWbe cut from the bulk mass of silage without exposing the remainder of a block which is too large for immediate consumption to the influence of the open air. As a consequence of the possibility of automatically cutting out a silage block with the aid of a blade it is also possible to cut a block from a high silo at a greater height out of sight of the operator. For a better understanding of the present invention and to show how it may be carried into effect, reference will now be made, by way of example1 to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a plan view of a first embodiment of a silage cutter Figure 2 is a side view of an upper part of the silage cutter taken on the line II II in Figure 1 Figure 3 is a sectional view taken on the lineIII III in Figure 2 Figure 4 shows a first embodiment of a hydraulic circuit suitable for use in the silage cutter ofFigures 1 to 3 Figure 5 shows a second embodiment of a hydraulic circuit Figure 6 shows a third embodiment of a hydraulic circuit Figure 7 shows a fourth embodiment of a hydraulic circuit Figure 8 shows a fifth embodiment of a hydraulic circuit Figure 9 is a schematic plan view indicating how a silage block is cut from a bulk mass of silage Figure 10 is a plan view of a second embodiment of a silage cutter Figure 11 is a side view taken in the direction of the arrow XI in Figure 10 Figure 12 is a side view of an upper part of the silage cutter of Figures 10 and 11 on an enlarged scale Figure 13 is a plan view taken in the direction of the arrow XIII in Figure 12 Figure 14 is a sectional view taken on the linesXIV XIV in Figure 12 Figure 1.5 is a sectional view taken on the linesXV XV in Figure 14 Figure 16 is a sectional view taken on the linesXVI XVI in Figure 14 Figure 17 represents electronic circuitry of the silage cutter of Figures 10 to 16 and Figure 18 is a schematic view of a silage block to be divided, showing possible positions of a cutting member of the silage cutter. The silage cutter of Figures 1 to 3 comprises a substantially vertical support 1 a guide beam 2 and a cutting member 3 which is displaceable along said guide beam and includes a cutting element 4, constituted in this embodiment by a blade. The support 1 is parallel to an upwardly extending plane and the guide beam 2 is parallel to a plane at right angles to the upwardly extending plane. The support 1 comprises two spaced, parallel, upwardly extending posts 5 interconnected by two spaced, parallel and substantially horizontal cross beams 6 so that, as viewed in a direction indicated in Figure 1 by an arrow A, the support 1 comprises a rigid framework of rectangular shape. Near the lower ends of the posts 5, which like the cross beams 6 are preferably hollow, there are coupling points 7 for attaching the silage cutter to the lower lifting arms 8 of a three point lifting device of a tractor to which the silage cutter is to be hitched. Midway along the upper cross beam 6 there is a coupling point 9 to fasten the silage cutter to the upper arm of the three point lifting device. The upper coupling point 9 is located at or near a vertical plane 11 about which the silage cutter is substantially symmetrical.The plane 11 coincides with the central vertical longitudinal plane of the tractor. The framework 5, 6 is connected by connecting elements 12 fastened to the posts 5 with a second framework formed by hollow posts 13 extending parallel to, and a small distance from the posts 5. The posts 13 are interconnected by spaced, parallel and horizontal cross beams 14, so that the second framework 13, 14, when viewed in the direction A, is rigid and rectangular.The junction of each post 13 with the lower cross beam 14 is rigidly connected near the lower end of the post 13 with the lower end of the adjacent post 5 by a connecting element arranged in a similar manner as the connecting element 12. However, the cross beams 14 project beyond the posts 13 so that their ends are further from the plane 11 than the posts 5. Preferably, the overall length of each cross beam 14 corresponds to, or is larger than, the track width of the tractor. The parts 5, 6 and 12, 13, 14 mainly constitute the frame 1. The lower cross beam 14 is provided along its length with parallel rod shaped fork prongs projecting away from the lower cross beam 14 in the direction A to, as viewed on plan, positions below the outermost part of the guide beam 2.The prongs may be similar to the fork prongs 143 shown in Figures 10 and 11, but for the sake of clarity they are omitted from Figure 1. As shown in the plan view of Figure 1, the guide beam 2 can be regarded as U shaped, having a transverse portion with two longitudinal limbs. At a short distance from the two free ends of the limbs, the beam 2 is rigidly secured to the ends of the upper cross beam 14. The cross section of the guide beam 2 is shown in Figure 3. The guide beam 2 has an outer wall having a horizontal web 15 from the ends of which extend upright limbs 16, which are bent over at their upper edges to form oppositely projecting flanges 17. There is a gap between adjacent edges of the flanges 17.Approximately midway between the web 15 and the flanges 17 there is a partition 18 which is rigidly secured between the two limbs 16 to provide a torsion resistant structure i5, 16, 18. The cross section shown inFigure 3 is the same throughout the length of the guide beam 2. The two limbs of the U shaped guide beam 2 project beyond the neighbouring ends of the upper cross beam 14 by a short distance, towards the tractor, and terminate approximately in line with the upper cross beam 6. The cutting member 3 Figures 2 and 3 comprises a substantially vertical hydraulic ram 19 hereinafter termed the cutting cylinder , having a downwardly extending piston rod to which is fastened the cutting element or blade 4, and a substantially horizontal hydraulic ram 20 hereinafter terns the displacing cylinder , having a piston rod to which a guide and pawl assembly 21 is fastened. The cutting member 3 also comprises a carriage 22 carrying the blade 4. The carriage 22 and the guide beam 2 are sub stantially symmetrical about a vertical plane 23.The carriage 22 comprises an upper supporting plate 24Edisposed above the guide beam 2 and a lower supporting plate 35 disposed below the guide beam 2.The supporting plates 24 and 25 are substantially rectangular, viewed on plan, and are parallel to each other and to the plane to which the guide beam 2 is parallel. The supporting plates 24 and 25 are rigidly connected to each other by four substantially vertical shafts which are located in pairs on opposite sides of the guide beam 2. The two parallel and spaced shafts on the outer side of the beam 2 are designated in Figure 2 by reference numerals 26 and 27. The shafts located on the inner side of the guide beam 2, only one of which is visible in Figure 3, are designated by reference numeral 28. On each of the shafts 26 to 28 is a freely rotatable roller 29, which is located between the supporting plates 24 and 25.Each roller 29 has a cylindrical part which can roll along the outer face of the adjacent web 16 of the guide beam 2. This cylindrical part is bounded at each end by a flange 30 or 31, which roll, respectively, along the upper face of the adjacent flange 17 and the lower face of the web 15. The vertical axis rollers 29 enable the carriage 22 to be displaced along the guide beam 2 and, since the rollers 29 are spaced apart as is shown in Figure 2, the carriage can follow the bends of the guide beam 2. The substantially vertical cutting cylinder 19 is fastened to the carriage 22 on the outside of the guide beam 2 and is carried by the corresponding outer edge regions of the supporting plates 24 and 25.The lower end of the double acting cutting cylinder 19 is located approximately at the level of the lower supporting plate 25. In the middle of the rectangular, upper supporting plate 24 there is a substantially vertical pivotal shaft 32, the centreline of which lies in the plane 23. The substantially horizontal displacing cylinder 20 is freely pivotable with respect to the carriage 22 about the pivotal shaft 32. In that position of the cutting member 3 relative to the guide beam 2 which is shown in Figures 1 to 3, that is to say on one of the limbs of the guide beam, the displacing cylinder 20 is disposed so that its length is substantially parallel to the length of the limb concerned, but during travel through the bends of the guide beam 2 the displacing cylinder can freely adjust itself with respect to the carriage 22 about the pivotal shaft 32. This adjustment is effected by the guide and pawl assembly 21 which is fastened to the free end of the piston rod of the displacing cylinder 20.The piston rod 33 of the displacing cylinder 20 emerges, as seen in the position of Figure 1, from that end of the displacing cylinder 20 which is away from the cross beam 14. The pivotal shaft 32 is fastened to the displacing cylinder 20 between its ends with regard to the travel along the bends in the guide beam 2.In this embodiment the pivotal shaft 32 is approximately midway along the length of the cylinder 20. The free end of the piston rod 33 Figure 2 is provided with a support element 34 which carries a carrier 35 Figure 2 in the form of a lazy Z.The lower end of the carrier 35 is horizontal and located at a short distance above the beam 2. This end carries an approximately vertical shaft 36, on which a roller 38 having flanges 37 is rotatably mounted. The roller 38 runs between the flanges 17 of the guide beam 2, the upper flange 37 of the roller bearing on the upper face of the flanges 17 and the lower flange 37 bearing on the lower faces of the flanges 17 Figures 2 and 3 . The roller 38 constitutes a steering roller for the displacing cylinder 20. The upper end of the carrier 35 is also horizontal and is located above the piston rod 33. A pawl 39 is connected to the piston rod 33 at a position which is a short distance from the support element 34.The pawl 39 is freely pivotable with respect to the piston rod 33 about a horizontal shaft 40 extending transversely of the piston rod 33. The pawl 39 is in the form of a Bock and has an ample bore through which the piston rod 33 extends. The pawl 39 is provided at its upper and lower ends with vertically extending extensions 41 and 42 respectively in the form of pins. A holder 42A is connected to the upper part of the carrier 35, this holder 42A supporting two vertical stops 43 and 44 Figure 2 which are displaceable to a limited extent. In he position shown in Figure 2, the stop 43 is in an upper position in which its lower end is at a higher level than the top end of the extension 41 of the pawl 39, and the stop 44 is in a lower position in which its lower end is at a lower level than the top end of the extension 41.The two stops 43 and 44 can be moved between their upper and lower positions by Bowden cables 45, the stops being arranged so that when one of them is in its upper position, the other is in its lower position. The Bowden cables 45 can be actuated from the tractor cab. The lower end of the lower extension 42 of the pawl 39 extends in the operative position shown in Figure 2 between the flanges 17 of the guide beam 2 to a position a short distance above the partition 18. Pairs of stops 46, 47 are arranged at intervals along the upper face of the partition 18, the space between the stops 46, 47 of each pair being such that the extension 42, whilst pivoting about the pivotal shaft 40, can move from one of the stops to the other.For this purpose each of the stops 46 and 47 has, on its side away from the other stop of the same pair, a boundary face which slopes upwardly in the direction towards the other stop for guiding the lower end of the extension 42. The distance between adjacent pairs of stops 46, 47 along the length of the guide beam 2, determines the magnitude of successive displacements of the cutting member 3 and, in particular, of the blade 4 along the guide beam 2. It will be apparent in particular from Figure 3 that, near the plane 23, the lower supporting plate 25 has a tapped hole in which a set screw 48 is displaceable. The screw 48 co operates with a frictional member 49 located between the supporting plate 25 and the web 15. The member 49 may be, for example, a block of brake lining material of wear resistant nylon. The block 49 is held against a movement relative to the supporting plate 25 by a holder, shown in Figure 3, which surrounds the block and is fastened to the supporting plate 25. The set screw 48 enables the block 49 to be urged with some relatively light force against the underside of the guide beam 2.If desired, two such brake blocks may be provided, which can be pressed tight separately. Since the cutting cylinder 19 imposes vertical forces on the guide beam 2 along a line of action spaced from the axis of the beam 2, the guide beam 2 should be torsion resistant and the supporting plates 24 and 25 together with the shafts 26 to 28 should constitute a rigid unit. Similarly, the rigid unit of the carriage 22 is rigidly connected with the cutting cylinder 19. The force exerted by the cutting force of the knife is transmitted by the rollers 29 and the flanges 30 and 31 to the beam 2. The automatic performance of the co operation between the cutting cylinder 19 and the displacing cylinder 20, which occurs hydraulically, will be described separately with reference to Figures 4 to 8. The mechanical operation is first explained on the basis of the foregoing description. In the position shown in Figure 1 for the blade 4, which corresponds with the position designated by numeral lwin Figure 9, the blade 4, having a substantially horizontal cutting edge, is moved downwards by the double acting hydraulic cutting cylinder 19 into the bulk mass of silage fodder. The dimensions of the silage cutter are such that in the upper position shown the knife 4 is located above the upper surface of the bulk mass of silage. After having made a cut through the silage to approximately the level of the prongs fastened to the lower cross beam 14, the blade 4 is moved upwards by the cylinder 19 into the position shown in Figures 2 and 3.Immediately thereafter the double acting hydraulic displacing cylinder 20 is energized so that the piston rod 33 moves outwards of the cylinder, the piston rod and the displacing cylinder, which is pivotable about the pivotal shaft 32, being guided by the roller 38 running between the flanges 17 of the guide beam 2. The flanges 37 of the roller 38 ensure proper guiding in the vertical sense so that the displacing cylinder 20 remains parallel to the guide beam 2. When the piston rod 33 has almost fully emerged, the lower extension 42 of the pawl 39 moves upwards over the sloping surface of the stop 47 and drops into the space between the stops 46 and 47 Figure 2 by turning about the pivotal shaft 40.At this stage, the stop 44 is in its lower position and the stop 43 in its upper position as set by the operator sitting in the tractor cab. In the position shown in Figure 2, in which the upper extension 41 is in contact with the stop 44 and the lower extension 42 with. the stop 47, the piston rod 33 is nearly fully emerged. The outward movement of the piston rod 33 will take place against a çomparatively small frictional force acting on the roller 38 and the pawl 39. In order to prevent this frictional force from moving the carriage 22 with the cutting cylinder 19 and the displacing cylinder 20 in the direction opposite the intended direction of displacement of the piston rod 33 as indicated by an arrow B in Figure 2 , the brake block 49 set by the set screw 48 is lightly pressed against the underside of the guide beam 2.Immediately after the pawl 39 has reached the position shown in Figure 2 in the manner described above the piston rod 33 having reached the end of its stroke , the piston rod 33 is urged inwardly into the displacing cylinder 20. But the end of the piston rod 33 cannot move relatively to the guide beam 2 in the direction opposite the direction B because the pawl 39 is in contact both with the stop 44 and the stop 47, and so the carriage 22 together with the cutting cylinder 19 itself and the blade 4 is drown in the directionB until the piston rod has performed its inward stroke.In this position the pawl 39 is a short distance from the end of the displacing cylinder 20 facing the pawl.Thereafter the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 fastened to the carriage is moved outwardly and hence downwardly, the blade 4 penetrating into the silage and making a cut adjoining the preceding cut.This position is indicated in Figure 9 by numeral 2, it being noted that the position 2 represented schematically in Figure 9 is shown slightly off set with respect to the position 1 indicating the first cut for the sake of clarity only. This also applies to all other positions indicated schematically inFigure 9. It is desirable for the successive cuts made by the blade to overlap one another to some extent in order to avoid the possibility that parts of the cut periphery of the silage block to be separated could remain joined to the bulk mass of silage with the result that it might be difficult to detach the block, resting on the prongs, from the rest of the silage.The correct magnitude of the displacment of the cutting member 3 in the direction B taking this overlap into account is determined by the relative distance between adjacent pairs of stops 46, 47. After the second cut has been made and the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 hÅas been fully drawn in, the blade then being again completely above the silage surface, the displacing cylinder 20 is again energized so that the piston rod 33 again emerges and is guided by the roller 38. The pawl 39 again turns about the pivotal shaft 40 when the extension 42 rides over the stop 46 the extension 41 moving just below the stop 43 which is in its upper position.The process is then repeated, using the next pair of stops 46, 47. At a bend in the guide beam 2, the guide roller 38 will follow the curvature of the opening between the flanges 17 so that the displacing cylinder 20 turns about the pivotal shaft 32 with respect to the carriage 22. Nevertheless, if the carriage is then still on a straight part of the guide beam 2 in front of the bend for example in the position 3 in Figure 9 , the blade 4 will still be parallel to the straight part concerned of the guide beam 2, even though the displacing cylinder 20, as viewed on plan, is inclined to that straight part. The stops 46 and 47 may, of course, also be located on a bend in the guide beam 2. The distance between each adjacent pair of stops 46 and 47 corresponds to the stroke of the displacing cylinder 20, as viewed along a straight line extending between the pair of stops concerned and the cylinder 20. The cylinder 20 may be inclined to a straight part of the beam 2 in the vicinity of a bend. In connection with the desirability of an overlap of adjacent cuts of the blade 4 and in connection with the desirability of the cuts 3 and 4, and 9 and 10 in Figure 9 respectively crossing each other, the horizontally measured length of the blade 4 may exceed the length of the stroke of the displacing cylinder 20. Since in the position 12 Figure 9 the guide and pawl assembly 21 protrudes ahead of the adjacent end of the displacing cylinder 20, the guide beam is prolonged at this place beyond the adjacent end of the cross beam 14. When the automatic sequence of cutting movements and displacements in the position 12 of Figure 9 has stopped, the whole cutting member 3 can be returned to its starting position in a similar manner, although, since the block has been cut, the displacing cylinder 20 merely perf6rms successive outward and inward movements until the whole cutting member 3 has returned to the position 1 of Figure 9, without the cutting cylinder being operated. Alternatively, a succession of cutting movements and displacement may be carried out beginning at the position 12 so that a silage block can be cut out during travel of the cutting member 3 in the direction towards the position 1. Before the start of the return movement the opera tor, working through the Bowden cables 45, moves the stop 43 Figure 2 into its lower position and the stop 44 into its upper position. When the piston rod 33 emerges, the cylinder 20 is moved away from the local stop 46, since the pawl movement about the pivotal shaft 40 is limited because the extension 41 comes into contact with the stop 43. As a result of the outward movement of the piston rod 33, the carriage 22 together with the cutting cylinder 19 and the blade 4 in its upper position moves in a direction away from the stop 46 until the piston rod 33 has performed its outward stroke. Imediately thereafter the piston rod 33 is retracted, the pawl 39 then tilting about the pivotal shaft 40 to ride over the stop 47, this being permitted because the stop 44 is in its upper position.Any friction then occurring is overcome by the effect ofss the brake block 49 engaging the guide beam 2. After the piston rod 33 has reached its fully retracted position, the stop 42 is again located between the next pair of stops 46 and 47, after which the process is repeated until the cutting member 3 is in the position 1.This return movement of the cutting member 3 into its initial position may, of course, be performed while the tractor carrying the silage cutter and the cut out silage block is driven to the place where the silage block is to be deposited so that for the return movement of the cutting member no time is lost. The orientation of the blade 4 relative to the cutting cylinder 19 and hence relative to the carriage 22 is maintained in a manner similar to that which will be described with reference to Figure 15 showing a further embodiment. The automatic sequence of the strokes of the cutting cylinder and the strokes of the displacing cylinder, the mechanical operation of which is described above, is controlled in a first embodiment by a hydraulic circuit represented in Figure 4. The valves and electric contacts represented in the circuit diagrams of Figures 4 to 8 are omitted from Figures 1 to 3 for the sake of clarity. These components are associated with the cutting member 3. As shown in Figure 4, the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 is provided at its end with a dog 50 which co operates with a control roller of a spring loaded two position, two way valve 51, the inlet 52 of which is connected with the hydraulic circuit of the tractor.In a completely analogous manner the piston rod of the displacing cylinder 20tis provided with a dog 53 co operating with a control roller control of a spring loaded two position, two way valve 54, the inlet 55 of which is also connected with the hydraulic circuit of the tractor. The valve 54 is connected by a duct 56 with a controlled two position, four way valve 57, one of the outputs of which communicates through a duct 58 with the input of a two position, four way valve 59 controlled manually, for example by a push button or Bowden cable, or electrically, and thence through a duct 60 with the end of the cutting cylinder 19 opposite the end from which the piston rod projects. A branch of the duct 60 is branched to a sequence valve 61 which can be controlled through a control duct 62 by a pressure exceeding the normal pressure range. The sequence valve 61 can pass the control pressure to the valves 57 and 59 th ough a control duct 63 and to a controlled two position, four way valve 64, which controls the displacing cylinder 20.The input of the valve 64 is coupled through a working pressure duct 65 with the output of the valve 51 and the outputs of the valve are connected through working pressure ducts 66 and 67 with the working chambers of the displacing cylinder 20 on both sides of the piston. Finally a spring loaded roller controlled two position, three way valve 68 is controlled by the dog 53 of the displacing cylinder 20, when its piston rod is fully, or substantially fully, extended.An output of the valve 68 communicates with the control duct 69, which serves on the one hand to control the valve 64 and on the other hand to control the valve 57 in the senses represented in Figure 4. The control pressure in the duct 69 is derived, in the appropriate position of the valve 68, from an input 68A connected to the hydraulic circuit of the tractor. Further details of the hydraulic arrangement shown in Figure 4, such as the changeover possibilities of the valves, blocked inputs and output ducts to the supply tank of hydraulic fluid are apparent from the standardized indications of Figure 4. When hydraulic pressure is applied to the inputs 52, 55, 68A for example, by actuating a cock in the driver s cab the working pressure will propagate from the inlet 55 through the valve 54 and the duct 56, the valves 57 and 59 through the duct 60 to the end of the cutting cylinder 19 to cause the piston rod of this cylinder 19 to emerge. The hydraulic pressure on the input 52 will propagate through the valve 51, the duct 65, the valve 64 and the duct 67 to the cylinder 20 in a manner such that the piston of the cylinder 20 is biased into its retracted position, the valve 54 remaining in the position shown. The hydraulic pressure on the inlet 68A of the valve 68 is applied to a blocked input in the illustrated position of the valve 68. The hydraulic pressure in the duct 60 is too low to actuate the sequence valve 61 through the duct 62.When the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 emerges, the valve 51 moves by spring pressure into the position in which it cuts off the application of pressure from the inlet 52 and so the pressure in the duct 65 drops off leaving the cylinder 20 duct 67 without pressure. When the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 is fully extended under the pressure applied through the duct 60, and the piston abuts the end wall of the cylinder, this pressure will increase. The pressure applied through the inlet 55 and the duct 56 will then exceed the normal working pressure and be applied through the control duct 62 to the sequence valve 61 to change over this valve so that the increased control pressure is effective in the control duct 63. This control pressure changes over the valves 67 and 54 so that the pressure in the duct 56 is applied through the duct 70 to the piston of the cutting cylinder 19 in the reverse direction so that the piston rod and the blade 4 are retracted under normal working pressure.When the dog 50 actuates the valve 51, the pressure exerted at the inlet 52 is applied through the duct 65 and the valve 64, which in the meantime has been displaced as stated above, through the duct 66 to the end of the displacing cylinder 20 opposite the end from which the piston rod extends, so that the piston rod of the cylinder 20 moves out. The dog 53 then leaves the control roller of the valve 54 and the resulting displacement of the valve 54 causes the pressure in the duct 56 and hence in the cutting cylinder 19 to fall off so that the piston rod of the cylinder 19 remains in its upper end position.When the dog 53 of the displacing cylinder 20 attains its outermost position, it engages the control roller of the valve 68, with thy result that hydraulic pressure is applied from the inlet 68A to the control duct 69 so that the two valves 57 and 54 are returned to their previous positions. The working pressure still prevailing in the duct 65 passes through the duct 67 to the end of the cylinder 20 from which the piston rod projects so that the piston rod is retracted.In this stage the valve 54 is still in its blocking condition, and so the duct 56 and hence the duct 60 are not yet pressurized. When dog 53 of the piston rod of the displacing cylinder 20 displaces the valve 54, the hydraulic pressure is applied again through the ducts 56 and 60 to the end of the cutting cylinder 19 opposite the end from which the piston rod projects so that the sequence starts again. The sequence of movements of the piston rods of the cutting cylinder and the displacing cylinder continues until the cutting member 3 has reached the position 12 in Figure 9. When the cutting stroke has taken place in the position 12, the displacing cylinder 20 operates as described above to bring the carriage 22 and the cutting cylinder 19 into a final position 13 corresponding to the part of the guide beam extending rearwardly beyond the cross beam 14 .This final movement brings part of the carriage 22 into a position in which it operates the push button controlled valve 59 so that the pressure in the ducts 56 and 58 after actuation of the valve 54 by the dog 53 acts in the control duct 63 so that the valves 57 and 64 are changed over. The duct 60 is then without pressure so that the cutting cylinder 19 is switched out, since, after change over of the valve 57, the working pressure is transmitted through the duct 70 to the end of the cylinder 19 from which the piston rod projects. From the inlet 52 the working pressure is transmitted through the duct 65 and the changedover valve 64 into the duct 66 so as to extend the piston rod of the displacing cylinder 20. After change over of .the valve 59, therefore, only the displacing cylinder 20 is operative, the cylinder 19 remaining retracted. The condition of the stops 43 and 44 Figure 2 is reversed, andthe displacing cylinder 20 then causes the cutting member 3 to move in the reverse direction along the path already covered until the cutting member has returned to the position indicated by 11011 in Figure 9. At this position a stop again changes over the valve 59 so that, when the operator desires, a new cutting and displacing cycle can be started. Therefore, all cutting and displacement bperations of the cutting member 3 may be performed without intervention of the operator, whilst in addition the return movement of the cutting member 3 in order to avoid loss of time can take place subsequently without cutting operations. Reversal of the condition of the stops 43 and 44 for inverting the direction of displacement of the cutting member may be perfdrmed not only by the manual Bowden cable actuation referred to above but also by actuating the stop for changing over the valve 59, so that the sequence of operations is fully automatic.If desired, changeover of the valve 59 may be carried out manually, if for some reason it is desired to return the cutting member 3 into its initial position at an earlier stage, for example when part of the silage block has already been cut loose in a.preceding operation. In the embodiment of the automatic control of the cutting cylinder 19 and the d isplacing cylinder 20 of Figure 5 the trip components of Figure 4 dogs 50, 53, valves 51, 54 are omitted and change over of the valves controlling the supply of hydraulic fluid to the cylinders 19 and 20 is performed by sequence valves. An inlet 71 connected with the hydraulic system of the tractor provides hydraulic fluid at working pressure for the upper end of the cutting cylinder 19 through a controlled two position, four way valve 72, a duct 73, a push button or electrically actuable two position, four way valve 74 and a duct 75. Pressure transmitted from the duct 75 can change over the valve 72 by means of the sequence valve 76 controllable through a control duct 77 to transmit pressure through a control duct 78.The end of the cutting cylinder 19 from which the piston rod projects communicates through a duct 79 in the illustrated position of the valve 72 with a reservoir for the hydraulic fluid. A control duct 79 is branched from the duct 79 and leads to a sequence valve 81 which communicates through a control duct 82 with a two position, four way valve 83. The valve 83, in the illustrated position, connects an inlet 84 for hydraulic fluid to the end of the displacing cylinder 20 from which the piston rod projects, through a duct 85. The other end of the displacing cylinder 20 communicates through a duct 86 with the valve 83 and, in the position shown, with the hydraulic fluid reservoir. The duct 85 can be connected through a control duct 87 via a sequence valve 88 with a control duct 89 which can change over the valve 72.The duct 86 communicates through a control duct 90 with a sequence valve 91 for connecting the duct 86 to a control duct 92 for changing over the valve 83. When, in the tractor cab, the operator opens a control codk to admit hydraulic fluid into the inlets 71 and 84, the working pressure will, when the various elements of the circuit are in the positions shown in Figure 5, propagate through the valve 72, the duct 73, the valve 74 and the duct 75 into the upper end of the cutting cylinder 19 to extend the piston rod.When the piston rod is fully extended, the hydraulic pressure in the duct 75 will increase so that the sequence valve 76 is actuated through the control duct 77 so that the control pressure enters the duct 78 to change over the valve 72. This change over enables hydraulic pressure to be applied through the duct 79 into the end of the cylinder from which the piston rod extends so, that the piston rod is returned to the position shown in Figure 5. At the end of this stroke, the piston being arrested by the end wall of the cylinder 19, the pressure in the duct 79 increases so that the sequence valve 81 is changed over through the control duct 80, and the control pressure enters the duct 82 to change over the valve 83. Hydraulic pressure then propagates from the inlet 84 to the duct 86 so that the piston rod of the displacing cylinder 20 is extended.When the piston meets the end wall concerned of the cylinder 20, the pressure in the duct 86 increases and is applied through the control duct 90 to change over the sequence valve 91. The hydraulic pressure is then applied through the duct 92 to change over the valve 83 so that the working pressure applied at the inlet 84 passes through the duct 85 to cause the piston rod to return to the position shown in Figure 5 until the piston is stopped at the end wall of the cylinder 20 opposite the end from which the piston rod extends, after which the pressure in the duct 85 increases and changes over the sequence valve 88 through the control duct 87, the control pressure then changing the valve 72 back into the position shown in Figure 5, after which the sequence of operations described is repeated.The working pressure in the duct 85 is maintained so that the cylinder 20 remains in the position shown until the sequence valve 81 is again changed over in the following cycle. The sequential operations of the cylinders 19 and 20 continue until the position 13 Figure 9 of the cutting member 3 is reached, in which the last stroke is performed by the cylinder 20. When this position is attained, the valve 74 is changed over by actuating a stop disposed near the end concerned of the cross beam 14 so that the duct 75 is connected with the return duct of the hydraulic fluid and the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 remains in the position shown. As in the embodiment shown in Figure 4, only the displacing cylinder 20 is then operative to return the cutting member 3 in the manner indicated above towards the position 0 Figure 9 . In the positionO a stop returns the valve 74 into the position shown in Figure 5 so that the cutting member is ready to start a new cutting and displacing cycle. In general the operator will cut off the working pressure of the system by means of his control cock at this instant. Figure 6 shows a third embodiment of a hydraulic circuit for the automatic sequence of the operation of the cylinders 19 and 20, in which case the outermost end of the piston rod of the cylinder 19 is provided with a dog 93 whose length measured lengthwise of the piston rod is relatively small. The dog 93 is positioned to actuate a control roller of a two position, two way valve 94 exposed to the pressure of the hydraulic system of the tractor from an inlet 95.The outlet of the valve 94 communicates through a duct 96 via a controlled two position, four way valve 97 and a duct 98 with the end of the displacing cylinder 20 opposite that from which the piston rod extends.Near the outermost end of the piston rod of the displacing cylinder 20 there is a dog 99, whose length measured lengthwise of the piston rod exceeds that of the dog 93. The dog 99 is positioned to actuate a control roller of a two position, three way valve 100, an inlet of which communicates with an inlet 101 for the hydraulic fluid at working pressure from the tractor. An outlet of the valve 100 communicates through a duct 102 with an inlet of a dog controlled two position, four way valve 103 and then through a duct 104 and a dog controlled or electrically controlled two position, two way valve 105 and a duct 106 with the end of the cutting cylinder 19 opposite that from which the piston rod extends. The duct 106 communicates through a duct 107 with a single acting, controllable non return valve 108 which communicates through a duct 109 with the duct 104.The non return valve 108 normally prevents flow from the duct 104 to the duct 107, but permits such flow when a control duct 110 communicating with the valve 108 is exposed to working pressure. The end of the cylinder 19 from which the piston rod projects communicates through a duct 111 with the valve 103, and in the position shown, with the hydraulic fluid reservoir. The end of the displacing cylinder 20 from which the piston rod projects communicates through a duct 112 with the valve 97 and thence, in the position shown, with the hydraulic fluid reservoir. A rollercontrolled two position, three way valve 113 is disposed so that it is actuated by the dog 99 of the displacing cylinder 20 when the piston rod of the cylinder 20 has reached its outermost position. Actuation of the valve 113 connects an inlet 114 to a control duct 115 to cause the valve 95 to change over. The valve 97 is furthermore operable by means of a control duct 116, which communicates with the duct 104. The valve 103 has two control elements 117 and 118. The housing of the valve 103 is screwed to the end wall of the cutting cylinder 19 comprising the sealing connection of the piston rod of that cylinder in a manner such that the control element 117 protrudes into the cylinder and can be actuated by the piston as is shown schematically by broken lines on the left hand bottom side of Figure 6. The control element 118 protrudes in the direction of the blade 4 and is actuated by the blade 4 at the end of the inward stroke of the piston rod. When the operator in the tractor cab switches over a cock, hydraulic pressure is admitted to the inlets 95, 101 and 114. From the diagram of Figure 6 and the standardized indications of the hydraulic system it will be apparent that the hydraulic pressure is admitted through the valve 94 controlled by the dog 93, through the duct 96, the valve 97 and the duct 98 to the displacing cylinder 20 so that the piston rod of the cylinder 20 is extended. At the same time the hydraulic pressure is applied from the inlet 101 through the valve 100 controlled by the dog 99 of the cylinder 20, through the duct 102, the valve 103, the duct 104, the valve 105 and the duct 106 into the end of the cutting cylinder 19 opposite that from which the piston rod projects so that the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 is also extended.After a short time the dog 93 leaves the roller of the valve 94 so that this valve is changed over and the working pressure in the ducts 96 and 98 falls off. In the meantime the piston rod of the cylinder 20 has moved a small distance as a result of the temporary application of pressure in the ducts 96 and 98. When the pressure in the ducts 96 and 98 falls off the valve 100 is still in the position in which the working pressure is applied from the inlet 101 to displace the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19, this pressure being transmitted through the duct 102, the valve 103, the duct 104, the valve 105 and the duct 106, since the length of the dog 99 of the displacing cylinder 20 exceeds that of the dog 93 of the cutting cylinder 19.When the piston rod of the displacing cylinder 20 remains stationary, the pressure causing the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 to move is therefore maintained and the piston rod will therefore continue to move out of the cylinder 19 until the piston actuates the control element 117 of the valve 103 at the end of its stroke so that this valve is changed over and the working pressure is transmitted through the duct 102 into the duct 11, the piston rod of the cylinder 19 then being retracted until the dog 93 actuates the valve 94, so that the working pressure is admitted to the ducts 96 and 98 and the piston rod of the cylinder 20 is extended.During the inward stroke of the piston rod 19 the working pressure in the duct 111 and the control duct 110 actuates the non return valve 108 so that the fluid in the space of the cylinder 19 above the piston can flow back through the opened non return valve 108 and the valve 103. The extending piston rod of the displacing cylinder 20 in the meantime causes the state of the valve 100 to change, since the comparatively long dog 99 leaves the control roller of the valve 100 so that the pressure in the duct 102 falls and the cutting cylinder 19 remains in its fully retracted condition, in which the blade 4 has actuated the control element 118 of the valve 103 so that this slide returns to the illustrated position. At the end of the outward stroke of the piston rod of the cylinder 20, the valve 113 is changed over by the dog 99 so that working pressure is applied to the valve 97 via the control duct 115 to change its state, as a result of which the working pressure emanating from the inlet 95 causes the piston rod of the cylinder 20 to retract. Near the end of this inward stroke the dog 99 actuates the valve 100 so that working pressure is again applied, through the duct 102 and the changed over valve 103, to the end of the cylinder 19 opposite that from which the piston rod extends, and the piston rod is ready to move outwards again. Via the control duct 116 working pressure in the duct 104 is passed to the valve 97, which regains the position shown, through the control duct 116.The significance of the valve 105 is the same as that described in the preceding embodiments. The fourth embodiment for controlling the automatic sequence of operations of the cutting cylinder 9 and the displacing cylinder 20 shown in Figure 7 corresponds to a considerable extent with that of Figure 6 however, the mechanical actuation of the valve 103 of Figure 6 by control elements 117 and 118 is replaced in Figure 7 by an electric control The valve 119 in Figure 7 corresponds to the valve 103 in Figure 6, but otherwise components of the diagram of Figure 7 corresponding with those of Figure 6 are designated by the same reference numerals. A further difference from Figure 6 is that the valve 97 having in Figure 7 the same reference numeral as in Figure 6 in the initial position shown in Figure 7 is in the opposite position with respect to Figure 6. Near the end of the cylinder 19, where the piston rod emerges, there is an electric sensor indicated by the encircled letter b corresponding with the same indication near the valve 119. An electric sensor indicated by the encircled letter a is arranged near the place where the outer end of the piston rod of the displacing cylinder 20 is located when the piston rod is fully retracted. The electro magnetic sensors a and b may comprise proximity switches responding to the approach of the dog 99 of the piston rod of the cylinder 20 and, respectively to the approach of the piston of the cylinder 19. When the working pressure is admitted through the inlet 101, the duct 102, the valve 119, the duct 104, the valve 105 and the duct 106, the piston rod of the cylinder 19 moves outwards so that the dog 93 leaves the control roller of the valve 94, which is thus changed over so that the pressure initially prevailing in the ducts 96 and 112 which tends to urge the piston of the cylinder 20 inwards falls off.When the piston rod of the cylinder 19 is fully extended, the valve 119 is changed over by the proximity switch b so that the working pressure acting through the duct 111 causes the piston to return until the dog 93 actuates the valve 94 so that hydraulic fluid can pass through the duct 96, the valve 97 which has in themeantime been changed over by pressure acting through the control duct 116 , and the duct 98 to cause the piston of the cylinder 20 to move outwards, the dog 99 which may now be shorter than in the embodiment of Figure 6 leaving the control roller of the valve 100, so that the working pressure at the inlet 104 is cut off from the ducts 102, 104 and 106 so that the cutting cylinder 19 remains in its position.At the end of the stroke of the piston rod of the cylinder 20 the valve 113 is actuated so that control pressure changes over the valve 97 via the duct 115 and the piston of the displacing cylinder 20 is moved inwards by working pressure from the junction 95 applied through the duct 96, until the dog 99 actuates the valve 100 so that the working pressure is again applied to the cylinder 19 through the ducts 102, the valve 199 which has in the meantime been changed over through the proximity switch a and the ducts 104 and 106, to cause the piston rod to be extended. A fifth example for controlling the automatic sequence of operations of the cutting cylinder and the displacing cylinder is shown in Figure 8. The hydraulic pressure to the cutting cylinder 19 and the displacing cylinder 20 can be supplied from respective inlets 120 and 121 through respective electrically actuable, arrestable two position, fourway valves 122 and 123 respectively. An outlet of the valve 122 communicates with the end of the cylinder 19 opposite that from which the piston rod extends through a duct 124 and an electrically operable twoposition, two way valve 125 and a duct 126, whereas the other end of the cylinder communicates through a duct 127 with the valve 122 and, in the position shown, with a hydraulic fluid reservoir. The working pressure inlet 121 communicates through the valve 123 in the initial position shown in Figure 8 with a duct 128 communicating with the end of the displacing cylinder 20 from which the piston rod extends.The other end of the cylinder 20 communicates through a duct 129, at least in the initial position shown in Figure 8, through the slide 123 with the hydraulic fluid reservoir. In the driver s cab there is arranged an electric switch 130 by means of which see the two encircled letters f the valve 125 can be electrically changed over. Near the outlet aperture of the piston rod of the cylinder 19 there is a proximity switch b, by means of which the valve 122 can be changed over see the corresponding letter b near the valve 122 , and a proximity switch c is also provided near the position occupied by the end of the piston rod of the cylinder 19 when it is fully retracted.The switch c is adapted to produce an electric signal for changing over the valve 123 see the corresponding letter c near the valve 123 . The proximity switch b responds to the approach of the piston in the cylinder 19 to the end of its outward stroke. In an analogous manner proximity switches a and d are arranged near the displacing cylinder 20 which correspond with and are actuated by the furthest inward and outward portions of the piston rod of that cylinder. The electric signals of these end switches a and d can change over the valves 122 and 123 respectively in the respective direction corresponding to the letters a and d indicated near these valves in Figure 8.An end switch correspending to the letter e indicated near the valve 125 is provided on the guide beam 2 or at the adjacent end of the upper cross beam 14, to be actuated when the cutting member 3 reaches the position 13 of Figure 9. When starting from the initial situation shown in Figure 8, the hydraulic pressure is passed from the tractor through a cock in the cab to the inlets 120 and 121. This pressure will propagate through the ducts 124 and 126 so that the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 moves outwards, whereas the piston of the displacing cylinder 20, which is already fully retracted, is urged inwards so that it remains stationary.At the end of the stroke of the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 the proximity switch b changes over the valve 122 so that the working pressure, applied through the duct 127, causes the piston rod to retract.Until it is actuated again, the valve 122 remains in its changed over position, and so the piston rod of the cylinder 19 remains held in the fully retracted position under the working pressure. On reaching the end position, it actuates the switch c so that the valve 123 is changed over and the piston rods of the cylinder 20 is extended, under working pressure applied from the junction 121 through the duct 129, until the piston rod actuates the end switch d, the electric signal of which changes over the valve 123 so that the piston rod of the cylinder 20 again moves inwards. At the end of the inward stroke of the piston rod of the cylinder 20 the switch a is actuated, which changes over the valve 122 so that the piston rod of the cutting cylinder 19 againmoves outwards, after which the process is repeated. When the position 13 of Figure 9 is attained, the end switch e is actuated so that the cutting cylinder 19 no longer receives hydraulic pressure and the cylinder remains in the retracted position.The end switch e can also be arranged to change over the stops 43 and 44 in order to cause the cutting member 3 to move in the reverse direction., in which case as stated above the cutting cylinder 19 remains inactive and the drive of the displacing cylinder is continued by the actuation of the end switch d and the switch 130 closed by the operator so that the signal f is alternately fed with the signal d to the valve 123.Also when the cutting member is in the position 0 Figure 9 the positions 1, 2 and 3 can be passed without the operation of the cutting cylinder by solely actuating the displacing cylinder 20, for example, into the position 4 by closing the switch 130 This may be useful when the cut out silage block to be cut out has already been severed from the rest of the silage at the positions 1 2 and 3 when cutting out a previous block lying at the side of the block concerned, so that in this respect no time is lost. The same can be achieved by means of the valves 59, 74 and 105 of the preceding hydraulic diagrams. The diagrams of Figures 4 to 8 show the means with the aid of which the cutting movement and the displacement of the cutting member automatically succeed one another and, moreover, the possibility of omitting the cutting procedures along part of the circumference of the block to be cut out, so that only the displacement of the cutting member takes place. A second embodiment of the mechanical parts of the invention will be described with reference to Figures 10 to 18. The silage cutter of this embodiment comprises a mast in the form of a framework 131 Figures 10 and 11 , on which a support 132 of the silage cutter is mounted for upwards and downwards movement to permit use of the silage cutter for cutting blocks from high silos, for example, at a height of 2.5 m. The framework 131 comprises two upwardly extending, parallel columns 133 each having a channel shaped cross section, the side walls of the channel having at their free edges inwardly directed flanges, the edges of which are spaced apart Figure 10 . The columns 133 are interconnected by two horizontal beams 134 disposed one above the other and some distance apart to form a rigid, rectangular framework. The framework 131 is provided at the lower ends of the columns 133 with extendable feet 135, which are fixable in a plurality of different positions Figure 11 , so that the height of the top end of the framework 131 above the ground can be raised without loading the lifting device of the tractor with which the silage cutter is coupled. Near the lower end of each of the columns 133 there is a coupling point 136 by means of which the framework 131 can be attached to the ends of the lower lifting arms of the tractor. Near the middle of the upper beam 134 there is a coupling point 137 by means of which the framework can be fastened to the upper arm of the three point lifting device of the tractor.The support 132 also comprises a rigid framework and extends substantially parallel to the framework 131.The support 132 comprises two upwardly extending relatively spaced and parallel beams 138, which are interconnected at their top and bottom ends by two parallel, horizontal cross beams 139. Viewed on plan Figure 10 , the width of the support 132 exceeds that of the framework 131. The width of the support 132 may be substantially equal to the width of of the tractor or it may be larger. The two cross beams 139 of the support 132 are interconnected at points away from their ends by two upwardly extending, parallel supporting strips or supporting beams 140, which protrude from the support 132 towards the columns 133 of the framework 131. The distance between the supporting beams 140 corresponds with that between the columns 133 and each of the supporting beams 140 extends between the flanges of one of the channel section columns 133.The ends of these supporting beams 140 away from the support 132 are welded to guide beams 141, each of which is close fit in the column 133 concerned so that it can slide up and down in the space inside the column 133. It is not necessary for the supporting beams 140 to extend over the whole distance between the two cross beams 139 of the frame part 132 in the direction towards the columns 133. If desired, they may be shorter and be welded to separate beams covering the whole distance between the tie beams 139. In this way the support 132 can slide up and down with respect to. the framework 131. This upward and downward movement is effected by a hydraulic ram 142 which is controllable from the tractor seat.The lower end of the ram bears on the middle of the lower horizontal beam 134 of the framework 131, and the end of the piston rod of the ram 142 is fastened to the underside of the middle of the upper cross beams 139 of the support 132. In this way the operator, working from the tractor seat, can shift the operative part of the silage cutter up and down the framework 131 into the desired position. A plurality of fork prongs 143 are fastened along the length of the lower cross beam 139. The prongs project away from the lower cross beam 139 in the direction C Figure 10 . They are substantially horizontal and parallel to one another and constitute a supporting surface for a silage block to be cut.The prongs 143 are fixed immovably, at least during operation, to the lower cross beam 139 and are provided with sharp points so that they can be driven into the silage by the tractor at the desired height if necessary after adjustment of height of the framework 131 . Mounting plates 144 are welded to the outer faces of the beams 138 of the support 132, towards the top of the beams 138 on both sides of the support 132. These mounting plates extend away form the support 132 in the direction C. To the inside faces of the two mounting plates 144 are welded two hollow carrier beams 145 located directly one above the other Figures 10 to 12 . The two carrier beams 145 are substantially horizontal and are parallel to each other and to the cross beam 139. With the support 132 they constitute a single rigid unit. Between the mounting plates 144 there are equally spaced connecting plates 146, which connect the upper carrier beam 145 to the upper cross beam 139. The two carrier beams 145 constitute both a carrier and a guide for an arm 147, which is substantially horizontal during operation and extends normal to and away from the carrier beams 145 in the directionC. The arm 147 is displaceable along the carrier beams 145 in the direction D Figure 10 . The arm 147 comprises principally two parallel hollow members 148 and 149 located side by side at some distance from each other Figure 14 . They are interconnected at their ends away from the carrier beams 145 by an upwardly extending end plate 150 Figure 12 which projects upwardly, above the members 148 and 149. At their ends nearer the carrier beams 145 the members 148 and 149 are rigidly secured to a supporting plate 151 which extends substantially parallel to the support 132. At its upper and lower regions, located some distance above and below the members 148 and 149, the supporting plate 151 is bent over to extend horizontally in a direciton away from the members 148 and 149.These horizontal portions of the supporting plate 151 are located respectively some distance above the upper surface of the upper carrier beam 145 and some distance below the underside of the lower carrier beam145. They also have inturned flanges 152 and 153 respectively Figure 12 in a manner such that these flanges are located at a given distance behind the rear faces of the carrier beams 145 with respect to the direction C. The upper flange 152 extends downwardly approximately to the level of the upper surface of the upper carrier beam 145 and the flange 153 extends upwardly approximately to the level of the upper surface of the lower carrier beam 145. In this way the supporting plate 151 with its rearwardly extending portions and the flanges 152 and 153 constitutes a bracket 154 which embraces the two carrier beams 145. Measured along the carrier beams 145, the width of the bracket 154 slightly exceeds the overall width of the two members 148 an d 149. On its underside, the bracket 154 is provided with two reinforcing plates 155 which strengthen the connection of the members 148 and 149 to the bracket 154. A shaft 156 is mounted between the top end of the supporting plate 151 and the flange 152. This shaft 156 is substantially horizontal during operation and two flanged rollers 157 are freely rotatable about it. The cylindrical parts of the two rollers bear on the upper surface of the upper carrier beam 145, and the two flanges of the rollers bear on the two outer faces of the upper carrier beam 145. In a similar manner, another shaft 158 is mounted between the lower end of the supporting plate 151 and the flange 153.The shaft 158 is parallel to the shaft 156 and perpendicular to an upwardly extending plane 159 about which the two carrier beams 145 are symmetrically disposed. Two flanged rollers 160 are freely rotatable about the shaft 158, the cylindrical parts of these rollers bearing on the lower face of the lower carrier beam 145, and the flanges bearing on the two outer faces of the lower carrier beam 145. Two shafts 156 with rollers 157 and two shafts 158 with rollers 160 are arranged side by side along the length of the carrier beams 145. In the space between the supporting plate 151 and the upper carrier beam 145 there is a pressure block 161 which is mounted on the supporting plate 151. The block 161 extends over the whole width of the supporting plate 151, in the lengthwise direction of the carrier beams 145. Between the pressure block 161 and the oppositely facing surface of the upper carrier beam 145 there is a small gap. Between the lower carrier 145 and the flange 153 there is a further pressure block 162, which also covers the whole width of the supporting plate 151 and the flange 153 and which is fastened to the flange 153. Between the lower carrier 145 and the pressure block 162 there is a small gap.The pressure blocks 161 and 162 are made from pressure resistant material, for example, nylon or the like and support the arm 147 on the carrier beams 145 in the event of an upwardly directed load on the arm. From Figure 12 it will be apparent that in the space between the two parallel beams 145 there is an electric direct current motor 163, which is mounted on the supporting plate 151 of the bracket 154. The motor 163, which is relatively low powered, as will be apparent hereinafter, is provided with a braking mechanism not shown and an output gear wheel 164 engaging the teeth of a drive element 165 in the form of a nut rotatable on a screwthreaded spindle 166 extending parallel to the carrier beams 145 over the whole distance between the two mounting plates 144, to which it is rigidly secured. The nut 165 is fixed against displacement with respect to the motor 163 in the lengthwise direction of the spindle 166. Two relatively spaced supporting strips 167 may be provided between the top of the bracket 154 and the top of the end plate 150 for reinforcing the connection between the arm 147 and the bracket 154. On the arm 147 can run a cutting member 168, which comprises a carriage 169 carrying a cutting cylinder 170. The cutting cylinder 170 extends upwardly and is perpendicular to the arm 147 and parallel to the plane to which the framework 131 is parallel.It is also parallel to each of the columns 133. The carriage 169 is located on the top of the arm 147 and comprises a carriage frame 171 having two pairs of axles 172 Figures 12 to 14 . Each axle 172 has a support wheel 173, each of which has a cylindrical outer face, rolling along the top of one of the members 148 or 149, and a flange which is in contact with the outer face of the member 148 or 149 concerned.The axles 172 with the wheels 173 are fastened to the carriage 169 in a manner such that the wheels on one side of the carriage bear on the top side of the member 148 and the wheels on the other side of the carriage bear on the top of the carrier 149.The carriage 169 has at the centre an opening extending substantially vertically. Into this opening extends part of the cutting cylinder 170, which extends, in the operative position, to the undersides of the members 148 and 149. This opening and the cutting cylinder 170 have a centre line located in a vertical plane 174 about which the members 148 and 149 are symmetrically disposed. The part of the cutting cylinder 170 within the carriage 169 and between the members 148 and 149 is surrounded directly by a sleeve 175, which is fastened to the carriage 169. The sleeve 175 has a bore in which the cylinder 170 is a clearance fit. Near the upper and lower ends of the bore there are insert rings 176 for example of nylon which slidably fit around the cylinder 170 in a manner such that the cylinder 170 is vertically displaceable with respect to the sleeve 175 Figure 14 . A supporting ring 177 is mounted on the top of the carriage frame 171. The outer surface of the sleeve 175 projects above the supporting ring 177, and the projecting portion has a screwthread, onto which is screwed a nut 178, which engages the top of the supporting ring 177. The top end of the sleeve 175 extends above the nut 178 and receives an adjusting ring 179, which is rotatable with respect to the sleeve 175 about the centre line of the cylinder 170. The adjusting ring 179 is retained on its top side by a ring 180, which is rigidly connected, as is shown in Figure 12, with the supporting ring 177. The assembly of rings 177 and 180 locks the adjusting ring 179 in a vertical sense.The outer surface of the cutting cylinder 170 is provided with a rib 181 which extends axially from the top of the cutting cylinder to approximately midway down the adjusting ring 179 Figure 12 , when the cylinder is in the position shown in the Figures witi i respect tb the carriage 169. The adjusting ring 179 is provided over its entire axial extent with an axial recess in which the rib 186 intimately fits. The ring 180 is provided throughout its height with a recess 182 Figure 13 opening in the bore in the ring in which the cylinder 170 is boated. The ends of the recess 182 subtend an angle of about 1200 and in the position shown the rib 181 of the cylinder 170 is located at one of these ends Figure 13 . The function of the adjusting ring 179 as will be described more fully hereinafter is to turn the cylinder 170 through 900 with respect to the carriage 169 by engagement of the rib 181. This pivotal movement of the cylinder 170 takes place about its centreline with respect to the ring 180 which is fixed to the carriage 169, the rib 181 moving in the arcuate recess 182 Figure 13 . The axial recess in the adjusting ring 179 in which the rib 181 is a close fit is continued in the sleeve 175 and in the sliding pieces 176 with a looser fit to enable the desired downward displacement of the cylinder 170 to take place with respect to the further part of the cutting element 168. The adjusting ring 179 is provided with an arm 183 Figure 13 which extends away from the arm 147 in a direction inclined to the plane 174. The free end of the arm 183 is pivotally connected to the end of the piston rod of a small cylinder 184 extending substantially parallel to the arm 147. The end of the cylinder 184 away from the arm 183 is pivotally connected by an upwardly extending pivotal shaft to the end of a supporting arm 185, which is rigidly secured to the carriage 169. The centreline of the cylinder 184, as viewed on plan Figure 13 , crosses i.e. does not intersect the centreline of the cylinder 170 in any of the possible positions of the cylinder 184. On the side of the adjusting ring 179 at which the rib 181 of the cutting cylinder 170 is located, the adjusting ring 179 has rigidly secured to it an arm 186 Figure 12 , which extends upwardly from the adjusting ring 179 and carries a horizontal pivotal shaft 187, about which a pawl lever 188 is pivotable.As shown in Figure 12 , the lower end of the pawl lever 188 is located in a local recess in the adjusting ring 179. This end is disposed so that the lower surface of the rib 181 of the cutting cylinder 170 can bear on its top face. The arm 186 has a horizontal top portion which is disposed above a horizontal top portion of the pawl 188. A compression spring 189 is disposed between these two top portions and surrounds a rod 190, which protrudes below the top portion of the pawl 188. The protruding portion carries a pressure piece 191, which is in contact with the underside of the top portion of the pawl 188 in the position shown.The upper end of the upwardly extending rod 190 is located inside a housing 192 and is fixed, at least in the position shown, in said housing by means of a releasable, electromagnetically actuable latch which can be actuated from the driver s cab of the tractor or by means of an element associated with control means for the silage cutter to be described more fully hereinafter. As shown in Figures 12 and 14, the cylinder 170 is provided at its lower end, below the members 148 and 149, with a thrust plate 193, whiic h is perpendicular to the centreline of the cylinder 170 and is rigidly secured to the cylinder. Th e thrust plate 193 in this embodiment is circular Figure 13 . The top face of the thrust plate 193 is provided with a thrust ring 194, which is centred on the centreline of the cylinder 170. As shown in the sectional view in Figure 14, the outer diameter of the thrust ring is substantially equal to the distance between the outer vertical faces of the members 148 and 149, and the inner diameter approximately corresponds to the distance between the inner vertical faces of those members.In the position of the cylinder 170 shown in Figure 14 there is a small gap between the undersides of the members 148 and 149 and the top face of the thrust ring 194. The thrust ring 194 is made from pressure resistant material, for example, nylon.When a cut is made in a body of silage, the cutting cylinder 170 exerts an upwardly directed reaction force on the arm 147. This brings the thrust ring 194 into contact with the members 148, 149 so that the reaction is transmitted to the arm 147 through the thrust plate 193 and the thrust ring 194 regardless of the angular position of the cylinder 170 about its centreline. A sheet steel blade 195 is mounted on the lower end oft the piston rod of the cylinder 170. As shown in Figure 12 the blade 195 is symmetrical about the region of the connection to the piston rod, i.e.about the centreline of the cylinder 170. In the position of the blade 195 shown in Figure 14, the central plane of the sheet material of the blade coincides with the plane 174. The lower boundary of the blade 195 is a cutting edge 196 which continues as upwardly sloping portions at the ends of the blade.In the illustrated position of the blade 195, the piston rod of the cylinder 170 carrying the blade is fully retracted, and the cutting edge 196 is located above the upper face of the silage to be cut. As shown in Figure 15, which is a sectional view of the upper part of the cylinder 170, the piston rod 197 of the cylinder and the piston 198 fastened thereto are hollow, in that they both have a continuous, elongate, cylindrical hole 199 extending throughout the length of the piston 198 and the piston rod 197.The hole 199 has a non circular cross section, which may be, for example, rectangular or square. A rod 200, which is rigidly secured to the upper end wall 201 of the cylinder 170, extends downwardly from said cover into the hole 199. The length of the rod 200 is at least equal to the stroke of the piston and the piston rod. The rod 200 fits throughout its length in the hole 199 and has a non circular cross section.The hole 199 and the rod 200 are both coaxial with the cylinder 170. In operation, the rod 200 prevents the piston rod 197 and hence the blade 195 from turning about the axial centreline with respect to the wall of the cylinder 170. As shown in plan view the angular position of the cylinder 170 with respect to the support 132 unambiguously determines the orientation of the blade 195 with respect to the support. Referring to Figure 14, the carriage frame 171 of the carriage 169 has fastened to it a laterally protruding support 202 which carries an electric direct current motor 203 for driving, through a delay mechanism, a nut 204 which cooperates with a screw threaded spindle 205. As shown in Figure 12, the spindle 205 is parallel to the top faces of the members 148 and 149 and extends the whole length of the members.The ends of the spindle 205 are rigidly secured respectively to the end plate 150 and to the supporting plate 151 of the bracket 154. The vertical outer face of the member 149 is provided with contact switches 206 disposed, in the illustrated embodiment, at four locations along the member 149. The switches are operable by the cutting member 168. For this purpose, each switch 206 has a contact pin 207 which can be depressed by an extension 208 of one of the wheel axles 172 of the carriage 169 as it passes over the contact pin 207 of the switch 206 concerned. In an analogous manner, at least in this embodiment, eight contact switches 209 are mounted on the vertical side face of the upper carrier beam 145 facing the framework 131. Each of the contact switches 209 also has a depressible contact pin 210, which can be actuated by an extension 211 on the underside of the flange 152 so that the contact switch 209 is actuated when the extension 211 rigidly connected with the arm 147 passes over the contact pin 210. The locations of the contact switches 206 along the arm 147, in the direction away from the bracket 154, are designated by the letters a, b, c and d and the locations of the contact switches 209 along the upper carrier 145 by o, p corresponding to the position of the arm 147 in Figure 10 , g, r, s, t, u and v in the following description of the automatic control of the cutting member 168. The two groups of letters correspond with those used in Figure 18, which schematically shows the top surface of a silage block to be cut, potential positions of the blade 195 being indicated by encircled numerals 0 to 14.The position 0 corresponds with a starting position of the blade and also with a transport position of the blade, the numerals 1 to 7 to a sequence of blade positions required for separating a block of maximum size from the silage, and the numerals 8 to 14 refer to blade positions in which the separated block can be cut into smaller .blocks or in which smaller blocks can be cut from the silage without cutting out the whole block 1 to 7. Figure 18 is important for the discussion of the electronic control hereinafter. The mechanical mode of operation illustrated in Figures 10 to 16 and 18 is as follows. Initially the arm 147 is in position 0 which corresponds with a position along the carrier beam 145 determined by the contact switch 209 o , and the position of the cutting member 168 carriage 169 along the arm 147 is determined by the contact switch 206 a . The cutting member is thus at position 0 Figure 18 . When the motor 163 is driven, the nut 165 rotates about the spindle 166 so that the whole arm 147 with the cutting member 168 runs on the rollers 157 and 160 along the carrier beams 145 until, for example, the contact switch 209 p stops the motor 163 in a manner to be described more fully hereinafter.the blade 195 is then in the position 1 Figure 18 .If it is desired that after the performance of a downward and upward cutting movement the blade should be displaced, for example, to the position 2, the motor 203 fastened to the carriage 169 is driven to turn the nut 204 about the stationary spindle 205 so that the carriage 169 runs on the wheels 173 along the top surfaces of the members 148 and 149 until the switch 206 c is depressed by the extension 208, after which the carriage and hqnoe the whole cutting member 16R stops at the required location. Subsequently a new downward and upward cutting movement can be performed.Assuming the knife has subsequently to be directly displaced into, for example, the position 11 Figure 18 , the motor 203 Figure 14 is driven in the reverse sense so that the carriage 169 moves towards the carrier beams 145 until the switch 206 a is depressed, after which the carriage 169 stops with respect to the arm 147. Approximately at the same time the motor 163 is energized so that the nut 165 rotates on the spindle 166, as a result of which the whole arm 147 together with the cutting member 168 is displaced along the carrier beams 145 until the switch 209 t is depressed to stop the motor 163. The movement of the carriage 171 along the arm 147 and the movement of the arm 147 along the carrier beams 145 are performed simultaneously. The blade is then in the position 11 of Figure 18. Assuming that the blade should next be moved into the position 13 of Figure 18, in which the orientation of the blade differs by 900 from that in the position 11, the motor 163 is driven in the reverse direction so that the arm 147 together with the cutting member 168 is moved from the position t Figure 18 in a direction opposite the preceding movement until the switch 209 s is depressed, after which the movement of the arm 147 along the carrier beams 145 stops. At the same time the motor 203 is actuated so that the nut 204 rotating on the spindle 205 moves the carriage 169 towards the end plate 150 until the switch 206 b is depressed so that the centreline of the cylinder 170 is in the desired position 13 Figure 18 . Simultaneously with these two displacements the cylinder 184 Figures 12 and 13 is actuated so that its piston rod is extended.The arm 183 then turns through an angle of 900, which movement is also performed by the adjusting ring 179 and consequently also by the cylinder 170 by virtue of the cooperation of the ring 179 and the rib 181.Since the position of the piston rod 197 Figure 15 of the cylinder 170 is fixed with respect to the cylinder by means of the rod 200, the piston rod 197 and hence the blade 195 also turn through 900 with respect to the preceding position so that, when the cylinder 170 has reached position 13 of Figure 18 the blade 195 has meanwhile attained the desired orientation.The further positions indicated in Figure 18 can be obtained in an analogous manner. As the cylinder 170 turns about its centreline under the action of the cylinder 184, the rib 181 moved in the arcuate recess 182 Figure 13 through the required 900 angle. The two blade positions i.e.cylinder positions differing by 900 are hydraulically fixed with respect to the arm 147 in a rotary sense by the cylinder 184. Referring to Figure 18, the length of the operative cutting edge of the blade 195 is chosen so that in all active cutting positions there is a certain amount of overlap with respect to the adjacent knife positions so that the block or blocks to be cut are fully separated and no difficulty is experienced in carrying away the cut parts. The hydraulic system for the downward and upward movements of the piston rod 197 of the cylinder 170 and the blade 195 may, by way of example, correspond with that in the left hand part of the embodiment of Figure 8, references to the cutting cylinder 19 being replaced by references to the cutting cylinder 170. The valve 125 is omitted so that the ducts 124 and 126 constitute a single duct. The proximity switch indicated by the encircled letter b would respond to the approach of the piston 198 and the proximity switch c would respond to the approach of the cutting blade 195 or the thrust plate 193 for changing over the valve 122 in the manner described with reference to Figure 8 broken circle around c .In the present case the hydraulic working pressure junction 120 inFigure 8 is produced by a cock actuated, for example, electro magnetically by a signal from the electronic control to be discussed hereinafter. When the working pressure is admitted to the inlet 120, the piston rod of the cylinder 170 moves outwards until the switch b is energized by the approach of the piston so that the valve 122 arranged on the carriage 169 is changed over, after which the piston rod retracts until the proximity switch designated c is energized, for example, by the approach of the thrust plate 193 see the encircled character c in broken lines in Figure 8 which resets the valve 122 in the illustrated position.A pulse produced by the proximity switch c during the approach of the thrust plate 193 has a different function, as will become apparent later with reference to Figure 17. T ne switch c does not produce a pulse in the upper rest position of the thrust plate 193 so that the arrestable valve 122 remains stationary between two cutting movements. It will be appreciated from the above description of the mechanical operation that the movement of the cutting member 168 along the arm 147 and the movement of the arm 147 along the carrier beams 145 that the power required for the reversible electric motors 163 and 203 is very low, since it is only required for displacement purposes. As a consequence, the electric power requirements of the equipment is also relatively low. The automated control of the cutting member 168 is represented in Figure 17 in conjunction with Figure 18. The electronic circuitry represented in Figure 17 is built up from TTL assemblies since no high sow itching velocities are required and these assemblies designed in dual in line are commercially available at very low costs. The circuitry of Figure 17 may be arranged on a single printed circuit board measuring about 20 x 20 cms. It is assumed that the electric system of the tractor supplying the control .circuitry is a 12 V system. Figure 17 shows only the main components of the circuitry with their connections. Subordinate elements, for example, circuitry for improvement of pulse flanks pulse steepening safety diodes and the like are omitted for the sake of clarity. The integrated circuits shown in Figure 17 are designated by the numbers standardized by the manufacturers, whilst in a few cases for an integrated circuit the numbers are indicated which are standardized for the type of assembly concerned. The circuitry of figure 17 is fed from a voltage stabilizer 212 type 7805 , the input of which is connected to the 12 V battery of the tractor. The stabilized output voltage nominal 5V feeds a binary counter 213 type 7493 having a trigger input 14, reset inputs 2 and 3 and outputs designated by A,B, C and D suitable for 16 binary words. A binary word from the counter 213 is applied to the corresponding inputs of two 4 16 line demultiplexers 214 and 215 type 74154 , the first controlling mainly the movement of the cutting member 168 along the arm 147 and the second controlling the movement of the arm 1,47 along the carrier beams 145. Each binary word of the counter 213 is also applied to corresponding inputs of a multiplexer 216 type 74150 having an output W, the voltage of which is the inverse of that of one of the inputs E o E 15, that is to say, from that input which is determined by the word emanating from the counter 213. The multiplexer 216 controls mainly the cutting movement of the cutting element 168. The voltage at the inputsEl to E 14 is determined by the position of the switches 217, numbered 1 to 14 corresponding to the encircled numbers in Figure 18. By means of the switches 217 the sequence of positions of the blade 195 can be controlled by the operator. In the non operative position shown of the switches 217 said inputs all have L level. In the other position the input concerned is at H level i.e. the 5 V output voltage of the stabilizer 212 .It will, of course, be appreciated that the switches 217 may be replaced by push buttons, each selected, depressed push button maintaining H level at the E connection of the multiplexer 216 by means of flipflops , but for the sake of simplification this embodiment shows a series of switches, which has, in addition, the advantage that it can afterwards be assessed which active positions of the cutting element 168 are set. The outputs of the demultiplexer 214, numbered 1 to 14, are coupled through inverters NOT gates 218 with inputs of four EXOR gates .219 type 74186 or gate combinations having an EXOR function in the following manner. From Figure 18 it appears that the positions represented by the encircled numerals 1, 9, 11 and 7 correspond to the same position position a of the cutting element 168 on the arm 147. Similarly, the positions 12, 13, 14 correspond to position b, the positions 2, 8, 10, 6 correspond to position c and the positions 3, 4, 5 correspond to position d.The inputs of the uppermost gate in Figure 17 219 are accordingly connected to the outputs 1, 9, 11, 7 of the demultiplexer 214, those of the next lower gate are connected to the outputs 12, 13, 14 and so on. The same arrangement applies to the outputs 1 to 14 of the demultiplexer 215 connected through NOT gates 220 to the inputs of EXOR gates 221. FromFigure 18 it follows that when the blade 195 is in either of the positions 1 and 2, the cutting member and hence also the arm 147 is in the same position position p along the carrier beams 145.This also applies to the positions 3 and 12 of Figure 18 position q , to the positions 8 and 9 position r , positions 4 and 13 position s , positions 10 and 11 position t , positions 5 and 14 position u , positions 6 and 7 position v . The outputs of the NOT gates 220 associated with the outputs 1 to 14 of the demultiplexer 215 are connected in the appropriate groupings to the inputs of the gates 221. Thus the inputs of the uppermost gate 221 in Figure 17 are connected to the outputs I and 2 of the demultiplexer 215, corresponding to the position p along the carrier beams 145. The inputs of the next lower gate are connected to the outputs 3 and 12 of the demultiplexer 215 and so on in accordance with the groups indicated above.The gates 219 and 221 thus represent the positions a to d, E to v of Figure 18, which positions constitute so to say a coordinate system. The outputs of the EXOR gates 219 and 221 are connected through transistors 222 to the inputs of the contact switches 206 Figure 12, group a to d. or, respectively, to the inputs of the contact switches 209 Figure 10, group o to v . The outputs of the group of contact switches 206 and those of the group of contact switches 209 are earthed over a distance 225 and 226 respectively on the printed conductors 223 and 224 respectively. The earth connection of the entire circuitry corresponds with that of the electric system of the tractor and, in general, is the tractor frame. The depression of the contact pin 207 of a switch 206 Figure 14 or the depression of the contact pin 210 of a switch 209 Figure 12 will shortcircuit the input corresponding to the associated transistor 222 to earth.From the printed conductor 223 earthed through the relatively high resistance 225 is branched a conductor 227 which stops the drive of the motor 203 Figure 14 , whereas from the printed conductor 224 earthed through the relatively high resistance 226 is branched the conductor 228 which stops the drive of the motor 163 Figure 12 . The two outputs 0 of the demultiplexers 214 and 215 are connected to the inputs of an AND gate 229, the output of which can be connected through a bipolar switch 230 to the reset inputs of the counter 213.The output 0 of the demultiplexer 214 is also connected, through the associated NOT gate 218, to an input of an EXOR gate 231, the other inputs of which are connected to the input of the contact switch 206 corresponding to the position a and that of the contact switch 206 corresponding to the position c.It is noted here that as indicated in Figure 18 the blade 195 has the same cutting direction in all positions corresponding with the position co ordinate a and c, that is to say, parallel to the longitudinal direction of the arm 147. In a similar manner the inputs of the contact switches connected to the associated transistors 222 corresponding to the positions b and d are connected to the inputs of an EXOR gate 232, in which positions the blade has to be always perpendicular to the arm 147 positions 12, 13, 14 and 3, 4, 5 respectively in Figure 18 .The outputs of the gates 231 and 232 are connected, for example, with the aid of an electro magnetically actuated, hydraulic valve to the cylinder 184 for pivoting the blade 195 through 900 in two directions in a manner such that, when the output of the EXOR gate 231 becomes high, the cylinder 184 causes the blade to turn into an orientation parallel to the arm 147, whereas when the output of the gate 232 becomes high, the cylinder 184 causes the blade 195 to turn into an orientation perpendicular to the arm 147. When the cylinder 184 or the blade 195 respectively is in the desired position, the piston of the cylinder 184 is held by hydraulic pressure at the respective end wall of the cylinder serving as a stop. The output W of the multiplexer 216 is coupled with an a stable multivibrator 233 composed of twoSchmitt triggers type 7313 capable of providing pulses even at relatively low frequencies when the input 234 of the second Schmitt trigger is high, whereas it stops when the input 234 is low. The pulse frequency may be determined by an external circuit comprising a resistor and a capacitor as indicated in the Figure. The output of the multivibrator 233 is connected to the trigger input of the counter 213. A proximity switch 235, which is identical to the proximity switch c according to the left hand part of Figure 8 as stated above is connected, through the output of the multivibrator 233, also to the pulse input of the counter 213. The switch 235 provides a pulse when the blade 195 reaches its uppermost position after termination of a cutting movement. The printed conductors 223 and 224, to which the outputs of the contact switches 206 and 209 are connected, are connected respectively to the inputs of a NAND gate 236 type 7400 . The output of the gate 236 is connected to an input of an OR gate. 237 type 7432 , the other input of which is connected to the output W of the multiplexer 216. The.output 238 of the gate 237, subsequent to power amplification, actuates a hydraulic cock for controlling the admission of hydraulic fluid at working pressure to the inlet 120 of the valve 122 according to the left hand part of Figure 8. The inverted output 0 of the demultiplexer 214 as well as the inputs of the contact switches 206 a to d from the transistors 222 are connected to the data inputs of five latches 239 type 7475 , the enable inputs G of which are connected in common to the output of the proximity switch 235. In a similar manner the inputs of the contact switches 209 o to v are connected to eight latches 240, the enable inputs G of which are connected in common to the output of the proximity switch 235. The pulses emanating from the trigger 233 are, however, prevented from reaching the enable inputs of the latches by a diode connected between the trigger 233 and the proximity switch 235 . The Q outputs of the latches 239 are each connected to a respective B input of a comparator 241 type 7485 and, respectively, to an input of a comparator 242 cascade connected to the comparator 241, since this type of comparator is capable of comparing binary words with, at the most, four bits. The voltage levels at the five data inputs of the latches 239 are each connected to an A input of the comparators 241 and 242, whilst unused inputs are earthed. Only those of the outputs of the comparator 242 are used which indicate that the binary value of the binary word applied to the A inputs is higher or lower than the value of the binary word applied to the B inputs.The output 5 of the comparator 242 is connected to the input of a NAND gate 243, the other input of which is maintained at a high level. The output of the gate 243 is connected to an input of a NOR gate 244, the other input of which is connected to the outputW of the multiplexer 216. The output 7 of the comparator 242 is connected to the input of a combination of a NAND gate 245 and a NOR gate 246, said combination being arranged in the same manner as the group 243, 244. A high H signal output of the gate 244, after amplification, causes the motor 203 on the carriage 169 to be driven in a manner such that the carriage 169 moves towards the end of the arm 147 away from the carrier beams 145. When the gate 246 produces a high H signal, the motor 203 is driven in the reverse direction so that the carriage moves towards the carrier beams 145. In a completely analogous manner the outputs of the latches 240 are connected to B inputs of cascadeconnected comparators 247 and 248, whereas the outputs of the transistors 222 co operating with the contact switches 209 are connected to the A inputs of those comparators. The output 5 of the comparator 248 is connected to an input of a NAND gate 249, the other input of which is always at H level. The output of the gate 249 is connected to an input of a NOR gate 250, the other input of which is connected to the output W of the multiplexer 216.When the output of the gate 250 is at H level, the motor 163 is driven, after power amplification, in a direction such that the arm 147 moves along the carrier beams 145 towards the position v in Figure 18. The output 7 of the comparator 248 is connected to an input of a NAND gate 251, the other input of which is always at H level. The output of the gate 251 is connected to an input of a NOR gate 252, the other input of which is connected to the output W of the multiplexer 216. When the output of the gate 252 is at H level, the motor 163 is driven in a direction such that the arm 147 moves along the carrier beams 145 towards the position o. The input E O of the multiplexer 216 is connected through a NOT gate 253 to the reset inputs of the counter 213 and to the shock free switch 230, which in one position connects the reset inputs of the counter 213 to the output of the gate 229 and in the other position earths the reset inputs. The trigger input of the counter 213 is connected through the switch 230 to earth through a resistor in one position, and in the other position to H level. In an initial position the cutting member 168 is positioned as shown in Figure 18 at O. By actuating the corresponding switches 217 for preselecting the desired cuts to be made, the operator can direct the cutting element for cutting out an entire silage block automatically and sequentially to the positions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 as a result of which the entire block of maximum size is cut loose or to any combination of other desired cuts, for exmaple, 1, 2, 3, 8, 9 or 9, 13, 11 and so on Figure 18 .When a block of maximum size positions Ito 7 has been cut loose, further cuts, for example, 8, 12, 9, .13, 10, 11, 14 Figure 18 may be made while the cut out block remains supported on the prongs 143, for example, during transport of the block to the feeding passage of a stable so that upon arrival the whole silage block 1 to 7 is divided into, in this case, six smaller blocks. This also solves the problem of subsequently dividing the whole silage block 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 afterwards by hand or by separately provided means which would require additional investment into small portions to permit the livestock i.e. cattle to consume the fodder. When the division of the large silage block into small portions takes place automatically during transport to the stable, no time is lost.Of course, it is also possible to cut blocks from the silo which are smaller than the block of maximum size 1 to 7, for example, a block 1, 2, 3, 8, 9 or 1, 12, 9 or 9, 13, 10, 5, 6, 7 and so on.The numbering and hence the automatically set sequence of knife positions are chosen so that the first numbers 1 to 7 correspond to a block of maximum size, since this will be mostly the case also with regard to the desirability of cutting small blocks during the transport of the cut out large block. The operation of the automatic control of the cutting member 168 on the basis of a plurality of desired cuts preprogrammed by the operator will be discussed with reference to the cuts 9, 11, 13 in this example a block of small dimensions is to be cut out. The operation in the case of other preprogrammed cuts and, of course, of a whole block 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 is analogous. Cutting relatively small block is in this example more illustrative because non preselected cuts have to be skipped. Starting with the cutting member 168 in the initial position O, the extension 208 engages the contact pin of the switch 206 a which switch may be identical to the switch 2Q6 o in the depressed state and the extension 211 Figure 12 depresses the contact pin of the switch 209 o Figure i . The switch 230 Figure i7 is in the position shown, in which the reset inputs of the counter 213 are atH level and the counter A, B, C, D is at zero. Since the counter outputs are connected to the inputs of the demultiplexer 214 and 215 and to those of the multiplercer 216, the outputs O of the demultiplexers 254 and 215 are at low level and for the gates 218 at high level so that the inputs of the gate 229 are both at high level and the output of the gate 229 is also high, which output is connected, as stated above, via the switch to the reset inputs of the counter 213. Owing to the gate 253 the E O input of the multiplexer 216 is at low. level and the output W and also the input 234 of the Schmitt trigger 233 are at high level. The Schmitt trigger 233 then supplies pulses to the trigger input of the counter 213, but the counter does not yet respond, since its reset inputs are at H level. It is assumed in the foregoing that the operator has operated the switches 9, 11 and 13 of the group 217 so that the inputs E 9, E 11 and E 13 of the multiplexer 216 are at H level and the further E inputs are at L level. The data input of the latch 239 corresponding to the 0 output of the demultiplexer 214 is at H level as well as the input of the latch 240 corresponding to the 0 output of the demultiplexer 215. The further latches are at L level at the inputs, whereas all latches are at L level at the outputs and hence at the inputs of the comparators. When then the switch 230 is actuated the reset inputs of the counter 213 become L, the E O input of the multiplexer 216 becomes H, whereas the output W becomes L so that the trigger 233 stops. At the same time, however, the switch 230 applies a pulse to the trigger input of the counter 213 so that the counter leaps to the binary digit 1, the outputs 1 of the demultiplexers 214 and 215 become L and the output W of the multiplexer 216 becomes H so that the counter 213 produces pulses. The counter 213 steps on in increments and the output of the corresponding gate 219 and 221 respectively provides H level, which also reaches the corresponding input of the corresponding latches 239, 240.The output 5 of the comparator 242 thus gets H level, but since one of the inputs of the gate 244 and an input of the gate 246 are invariably at H level originating from theW output of the multiplexer 216 , the output of the gate 244 and that of the gate 246 remain at L level so that the motors 203 and 163 remain stationary.However, when the trigger 213 attains the preselected value 9, the input W of the multiplexer 216 becomesL so that the trigger 233 stops. The output of the gate 219 or 221 respectively corresponding to the output 9 of the demultiplex r 214 or 215 respectively has become H as well as the input of the contact switch 206 a and 209 r . Then, however, the input of the gate 244 and 246 connected to the output W becomesH. Since the sequence of levels at the inputs of the switches 206 and 209 may be considered to be binary words the switches 206 d and 209 v being the most significant , the A inputs of the comparators 247 and 248 have a word greater than that at the associatedB inputs. The output of the switch 206 a already depressed provides at the output 227 an H signal which keeps the drive of the motor 203 switched out, whilst at this instant the contact switch r of the group 209 is not yet depressed. Since the binary word at the A inputs of the comparators 247 and 248 is greater than that at the B inputs, the gate 250 provides anH signal, since one of its inputs is then connected to the L level output W of the multiplexer 216.The H signal at the output of the gate 250 drives the motor 163 so that the arm 147 is displaced towards the switch r. As soon as the extension 211 depresses the switch 209 r , the printed conductor 224 and the printed conductor 223 are at H level. The branch 228 is then also at H level so that the drive of the motor 163 is stopped at the depressed switch p. Since the conductors 223 and 224 are at H level, the gate 236 supplies L level and since the other input of the gate 237 is also at L level output W of the multiplexer 216 , the output 238 provides an L signal which opens a hydraulic cock, transmitting working pressure to the inlet 120 Figure 8 until the cutting cycle of the cylinder 170 starts.This cutting cycle can thus be started only when the two conductors 223 and 224 are at H level, that is to say, when it is ensured that the two co ordinates of the cutting member 168 have been reached. When the piston of the cylinder 170 has returned to its upper end position, the proximity switch 235 which may be identical to switch c in Figure 8 provides a pulse to the trigger input of the counter 213 and also to the enable inputs of the latches 239 and 240 so that the word at the data inputs is applied to the Q outputs of these latches and hence also to theB inputs of the comparators. The A and B words at the comparators are then equal so that the H signal at the output 5 of the comparators 242 and 248 disappears.The pulse at the counter 213 has raised it to the non preselected position 10, as a result of which the W output of the multiplexer 216 is at H level so that the trigger 233 applies a pulse to the input of the counter 213, which thus leaps to the position 11. Prior to the start the switch 217 bearing the number 11 had H level so that the W output of the multiplexer 216 gets at L level and the trigger 233 stops. The outputs 11 of the demultiplexers 214 and 215 are then at L level and the associated inputs of the corresponding gates 219 and 221 are at H level so that in this case the inputs of the switches 206 a and 299 t are at H level as well as the data inputs of the corresponding latches and the associated bits of the A word of the comparators.The B word of a comparator still has the preceding value transmitted by the pulse emanating from the proximity switch 235. The comparators 241 and 242 state that the A word and the B word are the same since the switch 206 a is still depressed , but the comparators 247 and 248 state that the word formed by the switch 209 p v at the A input is now greater than the word at the B inputs, which still corresponds to the preceding cutting position. Since the output W of the multiplexer 216 is now at L level, the gate 250 supplies H level so that the motor 163 is switched on in a direction such that the arm 147 moves along the carrier beams 145 towards the switch 209 t .When the extension 211 has closed the switch 209 t , the conductor 244 is at H level as well as still the conductor 223 so that the gate 236 is at L level and the output 238 of the gate 237 is atL level, since the W output of the multiplexer 216 is at L level. As a result the inlet 120 Figure 8 is again exposed to working pressure so that the cutting cylinder 170 and the blade 195 perform an outward and an inward stroke. When the blade is again in its upper end position, the proximity switch 235 applies a pulse stepping on the counter 213 to 12, but since this position is not preselected, the W out put of the multiplexer 216 is at H level. The pulse emanating from the switch 235 passes on the preceding position 206 a and 209 t at the B inputs of the comparators since the input information is thereby applied to the Q outputs of the latches.Since the w output of the multiplexer 216 is atH level, the trigger supplies again a pulse stepping on the counter to 13, which has been preselected so that the W output of the multiplexer 216 has againL level. The gates 219 and 221 corresponding to the outputs 13 of the demultiplexers 214 and 215 go toH level so that the inputs of the contact switches 206 b and 209 s are also at H level. The binary word at the A inputs of the comparators 241 and 242 is now greater than the word still present at theB inputs originating from the position 11 in Figure 18 so that the output of the gate 244 goes to H level, since the W output of the multiplexer 216 is in the meantime at L level. The motor 203 is then driven in the direction such that the cutting member 168 moves towards the switch 206 b . Since the signal at the input of the switch 209 s then forms the most significant bits of the word at the A inputs of the comparators 247 and 248 and this word is smaller than in the preceding working position 11 switch 209 t , the output 7 of the comparator 248 supplies an H signal so that the output of the gate 252 is at H level and the motor 163 rotates in reverse towards the contact switch 209 s . When the stop 208 has depressed the contact pin of the contact switch 206 b , the conductor 223 is at H level and so also is the branch 227, the motor 203 being thus stopped. When the extension 211 has depressed the switch 209 s , the conductor 224 is at H level so that with regard to the L signal at the output W of the multiplexer 217 the output 238 of the gate 237 becomes L and the cutting cycle is started.The gate 236 ensures that this can only occur when the cutting element 168 has reached the two desired co ordinates. These co ordinates represented by theH levels at the inputs of the switches 206 b and 209 s are at the A inputs of the comparators. TheH signal at the conductor 224 causes, through the branch 228, the motor 163 to stop when the switch 209 s is depressed. In the position i3 of Figure 18, as stated above, the input of the switch 206 b has an H signal and the further switches 206 have an L signal. Thus the output of the gate 232 is at H level as a result of which the cylinder 184 is energized in the inward sense for the piston rod so that the adjusting ring 179 Figure 12 is turned with the blade 195, through 900. At the end of the inward stroke of the piston rod or the cylinder 184, the working pressure remains prevailing in the cylinder 184 and urges the piston rod and hence also the blade 195 against a stop formed by an end of the cylinder 184. The position of the blade in the position 13 of the cutting element 168 then corresponds to the position shown in Figure 18. The swinging movement of the cylinder 170 and the blade 195 is performed during the time in which the cutting member 168 is moving towards the position 13 so that the displacement time of the cutting member is utilized for turning the blade. When the blade again approaches its uppermost position, the proximity switch 235 supplies a pulse stepping on the counter to the binary number 14, so that the output W of the multiplexer 216 goes toH level and the trigger 233 produces a pulse stepping on the counter to the binary number 15, which, in this embodiment, is an unused possible position.The output W of the multiplexer 216 remains at H level, since the input E 15 is connected to H level.The next pulse of the trigger 233 causes the counter to step to O, since the counter is full. The gate 229 obtains an H signal at both inputs from the outputsO of the demultiplexers 214 and 215 through the associated gates 218 and 220 respectively and hence also at the output, as a result of which the reset inputs of the counter 213 reach H level and the counter stops. In the meantime the inputs of the contact switches 206 c, o, a and 209 o have H level, whilst also the least significant bits of the A words of the comparators are also at H level. These A words are, therefore, smaller than the B words corresponding to the last working position used, position 13, passed on by the last pulse from the proyarnity switch 235.The outputs 7 of the comparators 242 and 248 are thus at H level as well as the outputs of the gates 246 and 252, as a result of which the two motors 163 and 203 are driven in a direction such that the cutting member 168 is displaced towards the position 0. ..When the contact switches 206 o, a and 209 o are depressed, the conductors 223 and 224 are at H level and hence also the branches 227 and 228 which cause the motors 203 and 163 respectively to stop. The gate 231 has at one of the inputs an L signal so that the output of the gate 231 becomes H, so that the valve associated with the cylinder 184 is changed over and the piston rod moves outwards, the cutting cylinder 170 and the blade 195 thus turning back into the position associated with the position 0 of Figure 18.The cutting member returns from the last working position in this case position 13 automatically and directly to the initial position 0. In the position 0 the reset inputs of the counter 213 have an H signal, as stated above, and the inputE O of the multiplexer 216 resulting from the gate 253 has an L signal so that the output W of the multiplexer 216 has an H signal and in this reset position no cuts can be made despite the fact that the corresponding contact switches 206 and 209 are closed and the conductors 223 and 224 have an H signal. The preprogrammed cutting operation of the block bounded by the cuts 9, 11, 13 of Figure 18 has thus terminated. Cutting of a block of maximum size Positions 1 to 7 and back to the 0 position is also carried out in the same manner the cutting positions then directly succeed one another and from position 7, as in the example described above, an automatic return is made to the position 0. The whole programme thus terminates automatically in the position 0. The upwardly extending cylinder 170 might be a hindrance when the silage cutter passes through low doors and the like. In order to move the cutting cylinder 170 into a transport position in which the cylinder does not project above the rest of the silage cutter, the operator can turn the pawl 188 Figure 12 about the pivotal shaft 187 by electrical ormechanical means, for example, by means of a Bowden cable, so that the part of the pawl 188 located below the rib 181 is retracted. Then the whole cutting cylinder 170 together with the blade 195 drops down, sliding in the sleeve 175 Figure 14 and guided by the insert rings 176 in the sleeve 175 until an upper flange of the cutting cylinder 170 bears on the ring 180.If desired, turning of the pawl 188 may be activated in response to the presence of an H signal at the two conductors 223 and 224 of Figure 17 and at the reset sanctions of the counter 213. The connection of these conductors to an AND gate would cause the output of this gate to be at H level so that the pawl 188 can be energized. If desired, a spring element may be arranged on the ring 180 of Figure 12 for receiving the upper flange of the cutting cylinder 170, when the latter drops into the transport position as described. When a new cycle is started in which case the switch 230 of Figure 17 is changed over so that the reset imputs of the counter 213 are again at L level, the input E O of the multiplexer 216, owing to the presence of the gate 253, goes to H level and the output W of the multiplexer 216 goes to L level.Since in the zero position the contact switches 206 o and 209 o are depressed, an H signal being at the input of these switches, the conductors 223 and 224 have an H signal so that the output 238 of the gate 237 has an L signal and in the 0 position a cutting cycle is initiated. In this case this means, however, that the blade of the cutting cylinder 170, which is in the transport position described above, remains on the ground and the cylinder 170 is displaced until the pawl 188 Figure 12 re enters the space below the rib 181 under the tension of the compression spring 189 so that the cutting cylinder 170 regains its working position. The subsequent, second part of the cutting cycle of the cylinder 170 causes the blade 195 to move upwards in the cylinder 170 so that the starting position of the cutting member 168 is regained for performing a further, preprogrammed cutting process.In contrast to known silage cutters, in which an additional hydraulic control is provided for turning the cutting cylinder 170 into a horizontal position, the transport position is obtained here by the same means as those used for the normal operation, and the transport position can be automatically obtained and automatically undone at the beginning of a new cutting process. The preprogrammed sequence of cuts in the second embodiment is set with the aid of a control box connected through flexible, electric cables with the silage cutter so that the operator can position the control box in the tractor cab. The control panel of the control box has generally the appearance shown inFigure 18, showing the potential cutter positions, whilst at the centre of each cutting position there is a switch 217 numbers 1 to 14 arranged at the places indicated in Figure 18 by circles. The panel is furthermore provided with the switch 230.The operator need only operate the switches associated with the desired cutting positions and depress the switch 230 which returns by spring tension into the initial position to cause the cutting process to take place automatically, including the automatic return of the cutting member to the initial position and, as the case may be, of the cutting cylidner 170, to the low transport position. In the second embodiment the block of maximum size numbers 1 to 7 can be cut into six small blocks.Of course, the equipment could be modified to provide the possibility of cutting the block into a larger number of small blocks. With the electronic system this requires generally only an increase in the capacity of the demultiplexers and multiplexers, the counter and the comparators, as well as a larger number of gates and latches, but the circuit principle remains unchanged. From an electronic point of view such an extension does not give rise to difficulties. Both the above described, fully automated sequence of displacements and cutting cycles of the cutting member around the periphery of a block of maximum size as well as inside the periphery of the block to obtain smaller blocks and the automatic change over of the cutting cylinder into the transport postion may, in principle, also be used in the case in which a saw is used rather than a blade for sawing out the block or the small blocks. In the case of a saw, however, the cutting element should also be operative during its displacement to the various positions forming in this case corners of the block or blocks to be severed. Known silage cutters have the disadvantage that in the case of high silos it is not possible to cut at a relatively great height above the ground using a tractor since the blade positions have to be accurately set manually by the operator in order to achieve the required overlap of successive blade positions . When cutting .from high silos, the setting cannot be observed by the operator sitting in the tractor cab.This problem is solved by the automatic performance of the cutting and displacing operations of the silage cutter described above, since the operative part of the silage cutter can be displaced upwards along the framework 131 by the cylinder 142 Figure 11 , which is actuable from the tractor cab, and subsequently can be inserted at a distance above the ground into the silage, after which the automatic cutting operation described above can be carried out out of sight of the operator. Of course, the silage cutter of the first embodiment may also be arranged so as to be upwardly displaceable along a framework as in the second embodiment described thereafter. The cutting element 168, comprising the cutting, pivot and displacing means 170, 184, 203, could be provided with respect to the framework 131 in an alternative way. Two parallel horizontally extending supporting beams could be rigidly connected to both upright sides of the framework 131 at a distance above the fork prongs 143. In this embodiment a substantially horizontal arm is arranged between, and perpendicular to both supporting beams, this arm therefore being parallel to the framework 131. The arm is supported on the supporting beams by rollers and is movable in a direction perpendicular to a plane which is parallel to the framework 131. This arm carries the cutting member 168, which is movable along the arm on rollers.The drive of the arm along the supporting beams and the drive of the cutting member along the arm are achieved in an analogous manner to that described with regard to the second embodiment compare the function of the motors 163, 203 . In this alternative embodiment, the switches 206 in this alternative embodiment mounted on the arm and the switches 209 in this alternative embodiment mounted on one of the supporting beams perform functions which are also analogous to those which are described with respect to the second embodiment. In the first embodiment two or more cutting members 3 may be carried on the guide beam 2, each having its own cutting cylinder 19 and displacing cylinder 20, one cutting member being operative on one side of the plane 11 and the other on the other side.In this case the piston rods extend, viewed in a direction along the guide beam 2, preferably to the same side as each other from their displacing cylinders and are, in principle, operating independently of of one another. Whilst various features of the silage cutters that have been described, and that are illustrated in the drawings, will be set forth in the following claims as inventive features, it is to be noted that the invention is not necessarily limited to these features and that it encompasses all of the features that have been described both individually and in various combinations.