# Injection blow molding apparatus.

## Abstract
The present invention provides an injection blow mold ing process and apparatus for use in the blow molding of containers in which a preform 1 is molded onto a core 20 and is subsequently moved relative to the core 20 to space a body portion 8 of the preform 1 from the core 20 to facilitate the temperature conditioning of the preform 1 to achieve a desired biorientation of the thermoplastic material from which the preform 1 is made when the preform 1 is blow molded to form a container. The temperature condi tioning may be achieved by allowing stabilization of the temperature gradient through the material of the preform 1 with or without the assistance of a supply of gas to the preform 1 at a desired temperature.

## Claims
1. A process for manufacturing a hollow article by blow molding techniques, whereby a preform of thermoplastic material is developed on a core, said preform having an open end portion and a hollow body portion with a closed end, characterized by the following steps molding said preform on the core and disposing the open end portion in sealing engagement with a surface portion of the core having constant cross section, moving said preform and said core relative to one another to space said body portion from the core while maintaining said sealing engagement between the open end portion of the preform and said surface portion of the core achieving at least once a temperature conditioning of the preform while spaced from the core and blow molding the temperature conditioned preform to the shape of the final hollow article. 2. A process according to claim 1, characterized in that the temperature conditioning is performed to produce a bioriented hollow article. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that said temperature conditioning is achieved by allowing heat transfer from an exterior surface portion of the preform to an interior surface portion of the preform to produce a desired temperature distribution of the preform. 4. A process according to claim 3, characterized in that said temperature conditioning is achieved until substantially the same temperature is achieved at the inner surface portion and at the outer surface portion of the preform. 5. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a supply of gas at a desired temperature is fed to an interior and or an exterior surface portion of the preform to assist in achieving said desired temperature condition. 6. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the preform, after being spaced from the core and after being temperature conditioned, is pre blown to an intermediate shape. 7. A process according to claim 6 characterized in that the preform, after being blown to the intermediate shape is temperature conditioned prior to being blow molded to the final shape of the hollow article. 8. An apparatus for the blow molding of hollow articles comprising a core for supporting a thermoplastic preform during molding thereof and for supplying fluid to the interior to the preform for blow molding thereof, characterized in that the core 20 has a sealing portion 21 of constant cross section and a body portion 24 extending from the sealing portion with an ever decreasing cross section to a core end portion 25 , and clamp means 22 is provided to clamp a preform open end portion 2 in sealing contact with said constant cross section sealing portion, said clamp means and said core being adapted for relative movement to space a portion of a preform, when on the core, from said core, while said sealing contact is maintained. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8, characterized in that the core is of circular cross section symmetrically disposed about an axis, said sealing portion is cylindrical, the body portion defines a frusto conical section, a smooth transition interconnects the cylindrical portion and the frusto conical section, and the end portion terminates the frusto conical section. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9, characterized in that the end portion is substantially hemispherical. 11. Apparatus according to claim 8, 9 or 10 characterized in that said clamp means is adapted to maintain said sealing contact throughout the molding of a preform on said core and subsequent blow molding of a said preform. 12. Apparatus according to claim 8, 9, 10 or 11 characterized in that said clamp defines a threaded exterior shape 5 of said open end portion of the preform. 13. Apparatus according to any one of claims 8 to 12, characterized by an injection mold assembly A cooperating with said core to form an injection molding cavity for molding the preform about said core and a thermoplastic material extruder 42 for injecting said material into said cavity to mold said preform therein about said core. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13, characterized by a blow molding assembly B cooperating with said core to permit blow molding a preform in sealing contact with said core to form a bioriented container. 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, characterized by means 44, 46, 47 for moving said core with a preform thereon from its cooperation with said injection molding assembly to its cooperation with said blow molding assembly. 16. Apparatus according to claim 15, characterized in that said clamp means is moved with said core by said moving means. 17. Apparatus according to claims 13 or 14, characterized in that a first clamp means is disposed at said blow molding assembly and a further clamp means is disposed at said injection molding assembly. 18. Apparatus according to any one of claims 8 to 17, comprising a plurality of cores 20 and an equal plurality of clamp means 22 in combination with an injection blow molding apparatus having a plurality of injection molds and blow molds equal to said plurality. 19. Apparatus according to any one of claims 8 to 18, characterized by means 63 for assisting temperature conditioning of a said preform prior to blow molding thereof. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19, characterized in that said temperature conditioning assisting means is at least one passage 63 for the supply of gas at a desired temperature to the exterior and or interior of the preform. 21. Apparatus according to claim 20, characterized in that said assisting means includes means for introducing gas at a desired temperature to the interior of said preform between the core and the preform when the preform is spaced from the core. 22. Apparatus according to any one of claims 8 to 21 characterized by a pre blow molding station to enlarge the preform after temperature conditioning thereof and to further temperature condition the preform after said enlargement prior to blow molding thereof. 23. A hollow article when produced by a process according to any one of claims 1 to 7 or by an apparatus according to any one of claims 8 to 22.

## Description
IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO INJECTION BLOW MOLDING The present invention relates to a process and apparatus for manufacturing hollow articles of thermoplastic material, for example, polyester, polypropylene, polyethylene, nylon, from injected molded or compression molded preforms which are inflated until they take the shape of the desired articles. It is known in the prior art to effect such a process by pressing the edge of a substantially molten or pasty preform onto the neck of a hollow blow mold which has the shape of the desired article. The preform is then blown or inflated within this mold, starting from the edge thereof, until it completely touches the entire interior of the blow mold and, on contact with this wall, the distended preform cools instantaneously, thereby permanently assuming the shape of the mold, i.e. the desired article. For obvious reasons of production speed and in order to prevent the soft preform from being left supporting its own weight between the injection and blowing phases of the process, the blowing head is generally incorporated in the core upon which the preform or parison is injected. The core containing this blowing head is then conveyed to the entrance of the blow mold. In the injection blow molding apparatus which are presently being used in the market, such as the Piotrowski system, in which the preform remains with the core and is transferred to the blow station to make a container, precise temperature conditioning, which is essential for obtaining optimum biorientation levels required to attain high mechanical strength properties, such as impact and stress resistance, in the finally blown container, are difficult to control, predict, or achieve especially in the following situations a. When the preform has a thickness around 2.5 mm and the final blown container has a wall thickness of possibly 0.25 mm or less. This is especially true when the blow ratio between the preform wall and the blown container is fairly high, such as 10 to 1, a basic requirement for high orientation levels. b. Use of certain resins such as PET, polyester, polypropylene, polyethylene, nylon, etc. are practically impossible to control on a predictable basis in present injection blow mold equipment, in which the core travels with the preform to the blow station. These resins in their hot semi molten soft state or at their optimum blowing temperatures tend to adhere or stick unpredictably to parts of the metal core when blow air is introduced for blowing the container. This condition causes poor material distribution in the walls of the container and in extreme cases folds, blowouts, pleats and other distortions. c. In the manufacture of consistently controlled bioriented containers for use as pressure vessels i.e.beverage, beer and other carbonated drinks, made from PET bioriented containers, orientation levels in the walls of the containers have to be predictable and consistent and this can only be accomplished by fairly precise control of the preform temperature at the time it is blown to form the container. This predictability in control is presently not available on equipment being used in the marketplace. In present injection blow molding apparatus temperature control of the cross section of the preform wall is not possible. The core which is carrying cooling fluid tends to overcool the inner layer of the preform which is in direct contact with the core. The outer layer of plastic in the preform does not cool at the same rate and only by convection to ambient air. The only primary cooling that the outer layer gets is when it is stationary in the injection cavity. Heat transmission from the outer layer of the preform to the core is slow due to the poor heat transfer characteristics of plastics in general.This condition causes the temperature gradient through the cross section of the preform wall to be very steep, especially in thicker preforms which are required for high blow ratios. High blow ratios are required to obtain high biorientation levels in the blown container walls. To get maximum utilization of plastic in a container it is necessary to maximize the mechanical properties through biorientation at the specific optimum temperature for a particular resin being used. The part of the cross section of the preform which is nearest to optimum orienting temperature develops the best mechanical properties when blown into a container.Consequently the portion of the plastic in the preform in higher and lower temperature bands tend to have poorer mechanical properties. It then becomes obvious that to obtain the best results the entire cross section of that portion of the preform that needs to have optimum mechanical properties should be as close to the precise biorienting temperature at the time it is blown. There should be a minimum and, if possible, no temperature gradient. The process temperature window for optimum orientation levels in most resins is fairly small. It is an object of the present invention to overcome problems of temperature conditioning of preforms and to achieve this with an economically effective production rate. According to the invention, there is provided a process for manufacturing a hollow article by blow molding techniques, whereby a preform of thermoplastic material is developed on a core, said preform having an open end portion and a hollow body portion with a closed end, characterized by the following steps molding said preform on the core and disposing the open end portion in sealing engagement with a surface portion of the core having constant cross section moving said preform and said core relative to one another to space said body portion from the core while maintaining said sealing engagement between the open end portion of the preform and said surface portion of the core achieving at least once a temperature conditioning of the preform while being spaced from the core blow molding the temperature conditioned preform to the shape of the final hollow article. According to the invention there is also provided an apparatus for the blow molding of hollow articles comprising a core for supporting a thermoplastic preform during molding thereof and for supplying fluid to the interior of the preform for blow molding thereof, characterized in that the core has a sealing portion of constant cross section and a body portion extending from the sealing portion with an ever decreasing cross section to a core end portion, whereby a clamp means is provided to clamp a preform open end portion in sealing contact with said constant cross section sealing portion, said clamp means and said core being adapted for relative movement to space a portion of a preform, when on the core, from said core, while said sealing contact is maintained. The present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1, is an elevation of a preform shown sectioned on one side of its longitudinal axis Figure 2, is a fragmentary elevation of a core with the preform of Figure 1 shown in fragmentary section, with its body portion spaced from the core and its neck portion in sealing contact with core Figure 3, is a fragmentary sectional elevation of the core of Figure 2 Figure 4, is a diagrammatic part sectional elevation of an injection blow molding machine with the injection molding of a first preform completed on the core at station A and the cooling of a second preform taking place on the core at station B Figure 5, is the fragmentary sectional elevation of the machine of Figure 4, with the second preform spaced from core at station B for temperature conditioning thereof to a temperature at which desired biorientation of the material thereof will occur upon stretching of this material by blow molding Figure 6, is a fragmentary sectional elevation of the machine of Figure 4 with the second preform blown to full form at the orienting temperature Figure 7, is a fragmentary sectional elevation of the machine of Figure 4 preparatory to opening the blow mold Figure 8, is a fragmentary sectional elevation of the machine of Figure 4 with the blow mold open and the container blow molded from the second preform in the process of ejection Figure 9, is a fragmentary sectional elevation of the machine of Figure 4 with blow and injection molds fully open and immediately before the first preform has been transferred to the blow molding station B preparatory to the closing of the blow and injection molds for the injection molding of another preform thereby to reach the operational condition of the machine shown in Figure 4. Figure 10, is an elevation of multi cavity injection blow molding apparatus incorporating the features illustrated diagrammatically in the machine of Figures 4 to 9, shown in the fully open position of the blow and injection mold assemblies Figure 11, is a diagrammatic illustration of the temperature control system of the machine of Figure 10 and Figure 12, is diagrammatic representation of a four station alternative embodiment to the two stage embodiment illustrated with reference to Figures 4 through 11. With reference to Figure 1 a one piece preform 1 injection molded from a thermoplastic material, for example, polyester, consists of a neck or open end portion 2 and a body portion 3. The neck portion has a cylindrical interior surface 4 and an exterior surface upon which is formed a thread 5 and a flange 6. The hollow body portion 3 is provided with a smooth interior transition from the neck portion 2 to a frusto conical interior section 8 closed at its narrow end, remote from neck portion 2, by a hemispherical end portion 9. The interior of the preform 1 conforms with a core about which the preform was injection molded in a mold cavity with the cylindrical interior surface 4 rendering it possible to move the preform longitudinally, along axis 10 relative to the core, once the core and preform have been removed from the mold cavity, thereby to space the body portion of the preform from the corresponding portion of the core to permit the temperature of the body portion of the preform to be regulated as desired throughout the wall thickness of the preform, while at the same time maintaining a seal between the cylindrical interior surface 4 of the preform with the corresponding cylindrical surface of the core, to facilitate subsequent blow molding of the preform to form a bioriented thermoplastic container. The core upon which the preform 1 is molded is core 20 illustrated in Figures 2 and 3. Core 20 has a cylindrical exterior sealing surface 21 which seals the neck portion of a preform injection molded thereon by virtue of the cooperation of the core 20 with a split thread former 22 shown in Figure 2 only . The exterior surface of the remainder of the core which is in communication with the preform conforms to the interior surface shape of the body portion of the preform and includes a smooth transition portion 23, a frusto conical section 24 and an end portion 25. The taper of the frusto conical section is such that when the preform and core are moved relative to one another longitudinally of axis 10, the preform becomes thermally isolated from the core to a desired extent for timely temperature regulation of the preform in preparation for blow molding while, at the same time, the cylindrical interior surface of the neck portion of the preform maintains a sealing engagement with the cylindrical sealing surface 21 of the core. With reference to Figure 3 the core 20 is a bi metallic structure designed so that heat transfer is greater where required thereby to obtain the desired stretching effect for orienting the container material during the blow molding operation while the cooler portions of the preform, which receive the least amount of stretch, act as a piston to stretch the areas that are at the orienting temperature. The core consists of a steel outer body 26 and a copper nose and central cylindrical portion 27 defining, on the central cylindrical portion a spiral cooling tube 28. The beryllium copper nose and central portion 27 define an axial high pressure air supply tube 29 controlled by a steel pressure valve 30 which is opened. when desired, to permit high pressure air to blow from the preform into a container within a blow mold. With reference to Figures 4 through 9 an injection blow molding apparatus 40 includes a preform injection molding station A supported by a fixed platen 41 for cooperation with an injection molding material extruder 42, a blow molding station B supported by a movable platen 43 which is movable along supports 44 in the direction of arrow 45 Figure 4 to the position shown in Figure 9 and back again, and a core supporting turret 46 mounted on intermediate platen 47 disposed intermediate platens 41 and 43 and movable in the direction of arrow 45 from the position shown in Figure 4 to the position shown in Figure 9, in which latter position the turret 46 is rotatable about axis 48 to reverse the positions of the cores 49 and 50, and back again. The cores 49 and 50 are as described with reference toFigures 2 and 3 with the cylindrical portion of each core being circumscribed by a split thread forming membqr 51.The thread forming member 51 of core 49 together with injection mold 52 defines a cavity into which thermoplastic material is injected by the extruder 42 to form a preform, such as that described with reference toFigure 1. The split thread forming member 51 of core 50 which carries a preform, following transfer thereof from station A to station B, serves to maintain a sealing contact between the preform and the core 50 while the preform is blow molded in blow mold 53. Each split thread forming member 51 is supported by a thread split holder 54. The thread split holder 54 and its associated split thread forming member is mounted for movement by actuating pins 55 from the position shown inFigure 4 to the position shown in Figures 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 thereby to slide the preform at station B along the core to provide the above mentioned thermally isolating space between the preform and the core while retaining a sealing engagement between the cylindrical sealing portion of the core and the neck portion of the preform. The actuating pins 55 are moved by means of hydraulic actuators 56 mounted on the fixed platen 41 when the turret supporting intermediate platen 47 is in the position shown in Figure 4. Spring biased detents 57 mounted in the intermediate platen are arranged to resiliently engage grooves 58 in at least one of the actuating pins 55 thereby to resiliently locate the actuating pins in one or other of the positions shown inFigure 4 and Figures 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 respectively. It will be appreciated that in alternative arrangements falling within the scope of the present invention a the split thread forming member and its holder at station A may be arranged to remain at station A while the core 49 with the preform formed on it is moved with the intermediate platen 47 to a position in which it is rotated to station B with the split thread forming member shown at station B being replaced by a more economical clamping member able to engage the preform at station B to clamp that preform into sealing engagement with the core which carries the preform at station B, b the thread split holder 54 at station B is actuated by pneumatic, electrical or mechanical means which may be mounted on the fixed platen, the intermediate platen, the turret or the movable platen and which include, though are not restricted to, an eccentric or cam arrangement which moves the preform relative to the core by the desired amount during rotation of the turret to move a preform and core from station A to station B. Closure struts 59 mounted on the movable platen 43 transmit closure forces from the movable platen 43 by way of the turret 46 to close the injection mold arrangement 49, 51, 52 against the injection pressures encountered while injection molding a preform at station A. The turret 46 is provided with air inlet passages 60 for transmitting high pressure air for the blow molding operation through the center of the core positioned at station B and with coolant passages 61 for supply of coolant to the spiral cooling tubes of the cores at stations A and B. A hydraulically operated ejector pin 62 is mounted on the movable platen 43 for ejecting a container following the blow molding operation from the blow mold 53. The blow mold 53 is provided with air passages 63 for supplying air at a desired temperature into the cavity of the blow mold to achieve a desired temperature conditioning of a preform at station B, when it is spaced from its core as described above, to place the preform in appropriate temperature condition for blow molding to produce the desired bioriented thermoplastic container.The injection mold 52 and the blow mold 53 are provided with passages 64 for coolant in a manner known in the prior art. Wliile the present invention is being described with reference to an injection blow molding apparatus utilizing a rotating turret a Piotrowski turret in which the turret is rotated 1800 from an injection molding station at which a preform is injection molded to a blow molding station with the blow molding and the injection molding being independently carried out possibly simultaneously, it will be appreciated that the present invention is not restricted to the use of such apparatus and that many forms of injection blow molding apparatus will be appropriate including, but not limited to, apparatus in which the preform and its core are maintained at the injection molding station with the blow mold arrangement being substituted for the injection mold or to oscillating or rotary systems in which injection molds and blow molds are alternated either circumferentially or radially or in any other manner with the cores being moved sequentially from an injection molding station to a blow molding station and onto or back to an injection molding station, etc. The sequence of operation of the injection blow molding apparatus described with reference to Figures 5 through 9 will now be described with reference to these figures which in numerical sequence show the apparatus at various sequential stages of its cyclic operation. Figure 4 shows the apparatus immediately following completion of the injection molding of a preform on core 49 at station A. In this operational condition the injection molding assembly 49, 51 and 52 is held closed by the closure force supplied by the movable platen 43 by way of struts 59 and turret 55. A previously molded preform is shown in blow mold 53 on the core 50 at station B. The split thread forming members are in their closed positions in which they clamp the neck of the preforms against their respective cylindrical sealing surfaces of cores 49 and 50. In this condition the preform on core 50 is being cooled by the cooling action of the coolant passing through passage 28 in core 50 and by air being blown into the blow mold 53 by way of air passages 63. Figure 5 shows the apparatus in the next stage of operation in which the preform on core 49 is cooling and the hydraulic actuators 56 have been operated to move actuating pins 55 to move the thread split holder 54 and split thread forming member 51 at station B laterally of the turret 46 to space the body portion of the preform at station B from the core 50 while maintaining the neck of the preform at station B in sealing contact with the cylindrical sealing surface of the core 50, thereby to provide for the desired temperature conditioning of that preform. At station A the cooling of the preform by the mold 52 occurs for only 2 to 3 seconds as the outside surface of the preform shrinks away from the internal surface of the mold after this time. At station B the space between the core and the body portion of the preform is typically of the order of .005 inches. The spacing of the preform from the core conditions the temperature of the preform which, during cooling on core 50 has become too cool on its internal surface while being insufficiently cooled on its exterior surface whereby the interior surface of the preform is too cold for effective blow molding while the exterior surface is too fluid.By virtue of the movement of the preform to provide a gap between the preform and the core, the temperature gradient through the material of the preform can be allowed to equalize under the influence of air being blown into the blow mold 53 through the passages 63 to provide a desired temperature condition in the preform for effective blow molding. Achieving this temperature conditioning the outer and inner surface temperatures of the preform are allowed or caused to come close to equilibrium at the orienting temperature desired. The ability to release the preform from the core at any time within the processing cycle, after indexing, provides considerable freedom of control in varying the conditioning temperatures and temperature gradients. During this sequence of operations it will be noted that the preform is never removed from the core upon which it was injection molded until after the blow molding operation to produce a bioriented container has taken place. Figure 6 illustrates the stage in the sequence of operations of the injection blow molding apparatus in which air at a pressure of 300 to 350 lbs. square inch is supplied along the central tube past the valve of core 50 to inflate the now temperature conditioned preform until it engages the walls of the blow mold cavity of blow mold 53. The proper temperature conditioning of the preform together with the correct design of the core and cavity of the blow mold 53 ensures proper stretch and blow ratios.The core, as described with reference to Figure 3, has a higher heat conductive metal forming the end portion than that of the side walls of the main body part of the core.The preform tip is also thinner than the wall sections and because of its lower temperature resulting from the conductive end portion of the core, is stiffer than the wall portions of the preform. This causes the end portion of the preform to act as a piston when air under pressure is supplied through the core which causes a relatively high stretch in the wall of the preform in both the axial and circumferential direction. This provides the desired biorientation of the material of the container. Following the blow molding operation in the blow mold 53, the split thread forming member 51 and its thread split holder 54, which are in two halves split diametrically across the center line of the threads of the container to be produced, are moved apart by a head split mechanism 65 to the position shown in Figure 7 in which the neck of the container which has been blown in blow mold 53 is released. Subsequently, the movable platen 43 is moved in the direction of arrow 45 to the position shown in Figure 8 and the ejector pin 62 is actuated to eject the container from the blow mold. After ejection of the container, as illustrated inFigure 8, the intermediate platen is moved in the direction of arrow 47 to the position shown in Figure 9 in which the turret 46 can rotate about axis 48 to move the preform which has been injection molded at station A to station B in preparation for closing of the injection and blow molding apparatus in order that it adopt the position shown in Figure 4 in preparation for injection molding a further preform at station A and temperature conditioning the preform which is being moved to station B and subsequently blow molding that preform.During this mold closing the closing pressure move the split thread forming member 51 and its holder 54 back into the position in which they abut the turret 46 and the head split mechanism 65 is operated to close the split members together about the cylindrical sealing surface of the core at station A thereby to define the neck portion of the preform to be molded. Figure 10 illustrates a production injection blow molding apparatus utilizing the present invention in an arrangement in which there are twelve identical injection molds and associated cores disposed in two vertical parallel rows of six with a similar arrangement of blow molds and associated cores. The apparatus of Figure 10 includes an extruder assembly 66, a twelve cavity injection mold unit 67, a rotatable core mounting turret 68 adapted to rotate through 1800, and back, about axis 48 and a twelve cavity blow mold 69. The opening and closing of the mold units of the apparatus is carried out by a mold clamping unit 70. The apparatus is supported on a bed 71 which carries the controls utilized for operating.the apparatus. Figure 11 illustrates the temperature control arrangements utilized in the injection molds, the cores, and the blow molds. Again, parts corresponding to those discussed with respect to Figures 4 through 9 are given similar reference numerals. Figure 12 illustrates an alternative construction of injection blow molding apparatus utilizing the present invention in a four stage rotary motion of a turret 81 in which a core 82 is sequentially rotated from station P to stations Q, R and S prior to return to station P. At station P a preform is injection molded on a core in a manner similar to that discussed with reference to Figures 4 through 9. The core and preform shape are the same as described with reference to Figures 1, 2 and 3 and the neck of the preform is held in sealing engagement with the core by a split thread forming member 83, again in similar manner to that described in reference to Figures 4 through 9.Following formation of the preform at station P, the 0 turret is rotated through 90 and the core and preform are placed in a preblow heating chamber 84 which has a plurality of heating zones W, X, Y and Z by virture of which the temperature of various portions of the preform can be very accurately controlled prior to movement of the preform to the blow molding station R. At station Q the split thread forming member 83 is moved away from the turret in the direction of arrow 85 to move the preform along the core to provide a desired spacing of the preform body portion from the core as discussed above with reference to Figures 1 through 9 to provide desired temperature conditioning of the preform prior to pre blowing.At station Q the preform, once this temperature conditioning is achieved, is blown to form an intermediate size preform contacting the walls of cavity 86 of the preblow heating chamber with the partially blown.preform then being temperature controlled as desired preparatory to moving to the blow station R, by programmed control of the temperatures of zones W, X, Y and Z. When the desired temperature of the partially blown preform is achieved, the preblow heating chamber 84 is withdrawn and 0 the turret rotated a further 90 to bring the core and partially blown preform to the blow molding station R.The split thread forming member 83 maintains the neck of the preform in sealing engagement with the cylindrical sealing surface of the core throughout the processing steps carried out at stations P, Q and R. At the blow molding station R a blow mold 87 is moved into place over the pre blown and temperature conditioned preform and the blow molding is completed as previously described. Subsequently to this blow molding, the turret 0 is rotated a further 90 to bring the now blown bioriented container to station S where the split thread forming member is open and the container ejected. it will be appreciated that the four stages of this arrangement can be operated together whereby four containers in various stages of manufacture are made together. By use of the four stage process described with reference to Figure 12, containers of more complex structure and variable wall thickness can be produced and no temperature control is required in the blow mold at station R with a high production rate consequently being possible. Although the invention has so far been described with reference to containers having a thread formed on the neck of the preform, it will be appreciated the invention is not restricted to the production of such containers and that necks with flange or other configurations can readily be produced by the invention of the present application.The present application is, further, able effectively to produce wide mouth small containers which presently cannot be made economically by injection blow molding. Apart from the design of preform, core and injection blow molding apparatus, the present invention also provides an innovative process for blow molding as follows. A preform is injection molded in an injection mold cavity on a core to which a neck portion of the preform is sealed and by virtue of the shape of which the preform can be moved longitudinally of the core to space the main body of the preform from the core a sufficient distance to provide desired thermal isolation of the preform from the core while at the same time the seal of the neck of the preform against the core is maintained. The preform spaced from the core is then conditioned as to temperature to produce a desired temperature distribution throughout the material of the preform for a desired blow molding performance. Following this temperature conditioning which may include the blowing of air at a controlled temperature over the exterior and or the interior surfaces of the preform, the preform is blown in a blow mold to produce a bioriented thermoplastic material container.Between the temperature conditioning of the preform and the blow molding step, the preform may be part blown to a preblow shape which is subsequently temperature controlled to a desired temperature condition prior to a final blow molding step. The fully blown container is then released and ejected. In a preferred form of the process, a preform and core upon which it is mounted, are indexed from the injection station to the blow molding station with injection and blow molding thereby being possible at the same time. The present invention has been described with a symmetrical circular preform. However, it will be appreciated that other cross sectional shapes fall within the scope of the present invention. In addition, it is the interior surface s of the preform which are designed to achieve a seal with the core while permitting relative movement to introduce a thermally isolating gap. Of course, the exterior surface s of the preform may be whatever is desired to produce the material distribution for the container to be blown from the preform.