# Method for enhancing recorded marine seismic reflection signals having undulating water bottom distortions.

## Abstract
In marine seismic exploration, seismic energy is trans mitted through a water layer into the earth and seismic reflection signals from subsurface interfaces are recorded a method is provided whereby undulating water bottom distortions in the recorded reflection signals are removed by replacing the seismic energy velocity in the water layer with a velocity matching that of the earth medium immediately below the water bottom.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of marine seismic exploration in which seismic energy is transmitted through a water layer into the earth and seismic reflection signals from subsurface interfaces are recorded, and in which enhanced seismic reflection signals are produced by the elimination of undulating water bottom distortion comprising the steps of a removing from the recorded seismic reflection signals the effect of the water layer velocity and b replacing the removed water layer velocity effect with a velocity effect that would have been present in the recorded seismic reflection signals if the water layer had been replaced with a medium having the velocity of the earth medium below the water bottom. 2. A method according to claim 1, in which seismic energy is generated by a plurality of seismic energy shots in the water layer and seismic energy reflection signals from subsurface interfaces are recorded by a plurality of seismic energy receivers in the water layer, and in which undulating water bottom distortions are eliminated from the recorded seismic reflection signals by a producing first simulated seismic reflection signals from the recorded seismic reflection signals that would have been recorded with the receivers moved from within the water layer and placed at a location below the water bottom, b producing second simulated seismic reflection signals from the first simulated seismic reflection signals that would have been recorded with the receivers moved from below the water bottom and placed along a datum above the water bottom and the velocity of the medium between the water bottom and the receivers at the datum had been that of the earth medium below the water bottom, c producing third simulated seismic reflection signals from the second simulated seismic reflection signals that would have been recorded with said receivers located along the datum and the shots moved from within the water layer and placed at a location below the water bottom, and d producing fourth simulated seismic reflection signals from the third simulated seismic reflection signals that would have been recorded with the shots moved from below the water bottom and placed along the datum and the velocity of the medium between the water bottom and the shots at the datum had been that of the earth medium below the water bottom, the fourth simulated seismic reflection signals being said recorded seismic reflection signals enhanced through the elimination of undulating water bottom distortions. 3. A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, comprising the steps of a processing those seismic reflection signals having common shot points such that the signals appear to have been recorded at simulated receiver points below the water bottpm, b processing the seismic reflection signals having common shot points such that the signals appear to have been recorded at a datum above the water bottom, in a medium having the velocity of the earth medium below the water bottom, c processing those seismic reflection signals having simulated common receiver points along the datum such that the signals appear to have been generated at simulated shot points below the water bottom, and d processing the seismic reflection signals having common simulated receiver points such that the signals appear to have been generated at a datum location above the water bottom in a medium having the velocity of the earth medium below the water bottom. 4. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, which comprises the steps of a reducing the reflection paths of common shot point seismic reflection signals by removing the water layer velocity such that the receivers appear to have been displaced to first simulated receiver points immediately below the undulating water bottom on the receiver side of the reflection paths, b increasing the reflection paths of the common shot point seismic reflection signals by replacing the removed water velocity with the velocity of the earth medium immediately below the water bottom such that the first simulated receiver points appear to have been displaced to second simulated receiver points at a datum located above the undulating water bottom on the receiver side of the reflection paths, c reducing the reflection paths of seismic reflection signals having second simulated common receiver points along the datum by removing the water layer velocity such that the shot points appear to have been displaced to first simulated shot points immediately below the water bottom on the shot side of the reflection paths, and d increasing the reflection paths of seismic reflection signals having second simulated common receiver points by replacing the removed water layer velocity with the velocity of the earth medium immediately below the water bottom such that the first simulated shot points appear to have been displaced to second simulated shot points along the datum above the undulating water bottom on the shot side of the seismic reflection paths. 5. A method for producing a seismic record section from marine seismic reflection signals recorded in a water layer overlying an undulating water bottom, comprising the steps of a computing the source generated downgoing seismic energy wave, b recording the upcoming seismic reflection signals from subsurface interfaces within the earth, c downwardly continuing the recorded seismic reflection signals having common shot points to simulate receiver points below the undulating water bottom, d upwardly continuing the downwardly continued common shot point reflection signals to simulate receiver points along a datum located in a medium overlying the water bottom having the same velocity as the earth medium below the water bottom, e downwardly continuing the recorded seismic reflection signals having common simulated receiver points along the datum to simulate shot points immediately below the water bottom, f upwardly continuing the downwardly continued common simulated receiver reflection signals to simulate shot points along the datum and g recording the upwardly continued common shot point reflection signals and the upwardly continued common receiver point reflection signals at the datum location to produce a seismic record section in which the water layer effects from an undulating water bottom are eliminated.

## Description
METHOD FOR ENHANCING RECORDED MARINE SEISMIC REFLECTION SIGNALS HAVING UNDULATING WATER BOTTOM DISTORTIONS This invention relates to a method of determining the presence and location of seismic reflections from the earth s subsurface formations. In marine seismic exploration, seismic energy is generated in and transmitted through the water layer above the earth s surface, is reflected from subsurface interfaces between layers of the earth, and is received by hydrophones located in the water layer or on the earth s surface at the bottom of the water layer. The hydrophone signals are recorded in the form of a seismic time section. This seismic time section contains information that can be used to represent the characteristics of the subsurface formations. Primary reflection signals on the seismic time section indicate the presence of a subsurface reflecting interface, and time occurrences of these primary reflection signals represent the depth of the subsurface reflecting interface. Furthermore, the time shift or attitude of a primary reflection from trace to trace indicates the dip or slope of the subsurface interface. It has long been known that seismic data collected over a deep and undulating water bottom and viewed as seismic time sections, represent a highly distorted picture of subsurface interfaces.Conventional data processing techniques of velocity analysis, normal moveout corrections, and CDP stacking are based on an undistorted model for which relatively flat underlying structures are characterized by hyperbolic moveout on seismic time sections However, in the presence of significant water bottom distortion, flat, subsurface reflecting structures cannot be characterized by hyperbolic moveout. Consequently, stacking velocities not only become more difficult to estimate, but must be estimated at more frequent intervals in order to produce an acceptable stacked time section. urthermore, the stacked section will be of less quality i.e., display less trace to trace coherency at reflecting interfaces , and the interpretation of stacking velocities becomes more difficult. In accordance with the present invention enhanced seismic reflection signals are produced by the elimination of undulating water bottom distortion in the recorded seismic reflection signals. Such elimination is carried out by the removal of the water layer velocity effect on the recorded seismic reflection signals and its replacement with a velocity effect that would have been present if the water layer had been replaced with a medium having the velocity of the earth medium below the water bottom. More particularly, the method of the invention comprises producing first simulated seismic reflection signals from the recorded seismic reflection signals that would have been recorded with the receivers moved from within the water layer to a location below the water bottom producing second simulated seismic reflection signals from the first simulated seismic reflection signals that would have been recorded with the receivers moved from below the water bottom and placed along a new datum located above the water bottom with the velocity of the medium between the water bottom and the receivers at the new datum being that of the earth medium below the water bottom producing third simulated seismic reflection signals from the second simulated seismic reflection signals that wold have been recorded with the receivers located along the new datum and the shots moved from within the water layer and placed at a location below the water bottom and producing fourth simulated seismic reflection signals from the third simulated seismic reflection signals that would have been recorded with the shots moved from below the water bottom and placed along the new datum with the velocity of the medium between the water bottom and the shots at the new datum being that of the earth medium below the water bottom. These fourth simulated seismic reflection signals represent the originally recorded seismic reflection signals enhanced through the elimination of undulating water bottom distortions. The method of the invention is described below in greater detail by way of example only with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which FIG. 1 illustrates seismic reflection paths in a marine exploration operation FIGS. 2A 2D illustrate the processinq of common receiver seismic reflection siqnals to a new datum location FIGS. 2E 2H illustrate the processinq of common shot point seismic reflection signals to a new datum location and FIG. 3 is a flow chart of the method of the invention for shifting the seismic reflection siqnals to a new datum location as shown in FIGS. 2A 2H. If the water layer has little velocity contrast with the immediate subwater medium, the seismic wave front penetrating that medium would remain essentially spherical. The subseauent seismic reflections from deep reflectinq interfaces would then display the familiar hyperbolic moveout time delay. However, the typical situation encountered in practice is shown in FIG. 1 of the accompanyinq drawings. Referrinq to FIG. 1, there is shown a typical situation in which a marine seismic survey is carried out over an undulatinq water bottom. The initial seismic reflection paths, shown as dotted lines, are bent at the water bottom following Snell s Law of refraction.Even thouqh the reflecting interfaces are flat, the reflection points do not coincide with the midpoints between shot and receiver locations. In accordance with the invention, the seismic reflection paths are effectively replaced by the dashed lines in FIG. 1.Carrying the same qeophysical reflection information, these dashed reflection paths coincide with the initial reflection paths in the below water bottom medium, but deviate from them in the water layer.This occurs because the initial reflection paths bend at the water bottom due to the velocity contrast at the interface. After reflection path replacement, there is no velocity contrast at the water bottom and the reflection paths go straight through. Referring now to FIGS. 2A 2H, there are illustrated the steps of the water layer replacement method of the invention. FIG. 2A shows a typical situation where CDP marine seismic data are collected over an undulating water bottom. For simplicity, seismic reflection paths are shown as straight where they cross the water bottom interface.Distortions to the reflection paths occur at two separated places, firstly on the downgoing path near the shot locations and secondly on the upcoming path near the receiver locations. In FIGS. 2B and 2C simulated common shot seismic reflection signals are shown with reduced reflection paths. In FIG. 2B, the upgoing reflection path has been effectively decreased or downwardly continued from the surface to the water bottom by removing the water layer velocity effect. This downwardly continued path is treated as if the receivers were displaced from within the water layer and planted at simulated receiver points along the water bottom. In FIG. 2C, the simulated receiver points are further displaced across the water bottom to simulated receiver points immediately below the water bottom. In FIG.2D the simulated common shot seismic reflection signals are shown with increased reflection path compared with that of FIG. 2C. The Jpgoing reflection path has been increased or upwardly continued by treating the simulated receiver points as if they were displaced upwardly and planted at simulated receiver points along a new datum. In this upward continuation process, the water layer is effectively replaced with a medium having a velocity to match the water bottom rock velocity. In this manner, distortions incurred on the receiver side of the seismic reflection path for a common shot gather have been removed. Next, the water layer replacement process is repeated for common receiver gathers utilizing the simulated common receiver points along the new datum as shown in FIGS. 2E 2H. In FIGS. 2F and 2G simulated common receiver seismic reflection signals are shown with reduced reflection paths. In FIG. 2F, the downgoing reflection path has been decreased or downwardly continued from the surface to the water bottom by removing the water layer velocity effect. This downwardly continued path Is treated as If the shots were displaced from within the water layer and planted at simulated shot points along the water bottom. In FIG. 2G, the simulated shot points are displaced across the water bottom to simulated shot points immediately below the water bottom.In FIG. 2H the simulated common receiver seismic reflection signals are shown with increased paths compared to those ofFIG. 2G. The reflection path has been increased or upwardly continued by treating the simulated shot points as if they were displaced and planted at simulated shot points along the new datum. In this upward continuation process, the water layer is effectively replaced with a medium having a velocity to match the water bottom rock velocity. In this manner, distortions incurred on the shot side of the seismic reflection path for a common receiver gather have been removed.The final seismic time section created by the water layer replacement process of the invention can now be processed by conventional data processing techniques, the seismic reflection signals now appearing to have been collected on the new datum over the replaced water layer without having experienced water bottom distortion. This procedure is further illustrated in the flow chart of FIG. 3. Downward continuation is a computation operation by which a wave field at any depth level can be computed from a known field specified at a different level. In such an operation, the field recorded upcoming wave 5 initially transformed into the frequency domain. This is carried out by applying the rourier transform to the differential equation with respect to the time variable t and only the signal frequency band is kept. A finite difference operation is then applied to the x z variables for each of the kept frequency components. Such an operation includes a split step time sharing finite difference algorithm for efficient computation. More particularly, the downward continuation of an upcoming wave is carried out in accordance with the following expressions.From the upcoming wave measured on the surface U5 x, z o, t , where s represents shot location, the upcoming wave over the whole depth is computed by use of a total velocity gradient upcoming wave equation a3u 3V a3U V2 a3U 1 a3U 0 1 azat2 4 atax2 4 azax Y at3 where V, the velocity of the earth medium may vary in both x, the lateral distance variable and z, the depth variable.To accommodate for lateral velocity variations, a split step algorithm is implemented in the frequency domain, in which equation 1 is split into twoequations aU y2 a3U jVw a2U 2 0 2 az 4 azax2 2 ax2 and aU U 0 3 az Y where U ra U x, z, t e jXtdt 4 x,z,w a Numerically, equation 2 is implemented with a Crank Nicolson type finite difference scheme, and equation 3 is directly solved for each depth increment.A more detailed discussion of splitting up techniques may be found in Marchuk, G.I. 1975 , Methods of NumericalMathematics, Springer Verlag and in Kjartansson, E. 1978 , Modeling and Migration with the Monochromatic Wave Equation VariableVelocity and Attenuation , Stanford Exploration Project Stanford,California Leland Stanford Junior University Report No. 15. From the discussion above it will be apparent that the migration method of the invention can be practiced either with the use of analog computing apparatus such as delay lines, shift registers, drum recorders, and contour plotters, or with the use of digital computing apparatus. Thus, a digital computing system a Control DataCorporation Model 6600 General Purpose Digital Computer may be utilized along with the following input output components Control Computer, 65K Memory 6602 Console Display 6681 Data Channel Converter 405 Card Reader 3447 Card Reader Controller 501 Line Printer 3256 Line Printer Controller