# Device for bicycle motorization.

## Abstract
The invention allows a device to be supported in an integral way of the bicycle frame and directly transmits the motion impressed by the motor assembly, by means of half parts to be engaged on order, on a pinion permanently engaged in a rack fitted on the wheel. The pinion and tyre rim components with rack are foreseen in polymer resins, materials with high elasticity and resistance to friction.

## Claims
pla Ts. 1 Device for bicycle motorization, characterized by The fact that permits a device to be supported in an integral way on the frame, directly transmitting mo lion as impressed by the motor assembly, through half parts to be engaged on corn mand on a pinion permanently engaged in the rack fitted on the wheel. The pinion as rim components with rack are foreseen in polymer resins, material with high elesticity and friction resistance. 2 Device for bicycle motorization, according to the previous claim, characterized by the fact that a motor assembly is employed which transmits to coupling pul ley with control to be engaged in a shaft on which a pinion is constantly engages in a rack fitted on the inner correspondence border of the back wheel rim. Fn gagement is controlled by means of a pusbbuttom which axially shifts a self lubr cated cylinder on the pinion bearing shaft. consequently, a ball, which was previously positioned in an integrative cavity of the two shaft coaxial components, gets out on a slide partially and engages in another cavity of the coupling pul ley thus detmmining the movement transmission from this one to the pinion Dearin shaft. When the control is disactvated, the ball enters again into its seat and disengages the two transmission components the vehicle can thus be used by mean of the pedals, while the pinion is idling. 3 Device for bicycle motorization, according to the previous claims, characteti zed by the fact that to prevent the inversed rotation of the pinion, which would be caused by the pedal in the engagement phase, an idle wheel bearing is forest between The transmission socket and pinion supporting shaft, operating as direc tional check. Between distance pieces, a longitudinal parallel set of small rollers is employd leaning on differently shaped half seats of the containment cylinder. A slightly conical surface prevents from motion in its sense by gradu reduction of the rotation space, and the other, with natural bending, allows th free rotation. 4 Device for bicycle motorization, according to The previous claims, character zed by the fact that it is supported by tubular frame 1 on two parts the fronl one empploys, on earshaped parts 2, pivot 3 borne by anti vibration coaxial pe 4 which supports ribbed arm 5. The motor assembly 6 is fixed on part 9 ana 8 by nans of screws 9 and 10, of which the former 9 blocks the components and 11, while screw 10 blocks chain guard 12 on guard 6. Tunis part Is additionally supported by parts 13 and 14 on support 15 of frame 16, and pert 17 to frame 16 by means of screws 18. Zne vanes of cylinder 19 and head 20 have been foreseen as wekk as civer 21 of ignition plug and support 22 of carburettor 23. Below, on face 24 and nuts 25 silencer 26 is fitted. 5 Device for bicycle motorization, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the motor assembly drives clutch pulley 27 on clutch bell 28 contained in structure 6 and bearing the transmission socket 29. The engagement is performed by pushbuttom 30 which lets cylinder 31 advance in shaft 32 bor ne in structure 12 by means of the supporting bearing couple 32 and 33, and by structure 6 through soclets 29 sustained on radial sial bearings 3 and 35 and supporting bearing 36. 6 Device for bicycle motorization, according to the previous claims, characteri zed by the fact that the cylinder 31 is with self lubrificating movement anc employs shast 37 which is moved with pumping effect in space 38 the bottom of which is closed by plug 39 with grease nipple 40 containing a solution ro mo libdene grease. 7 Device for bicycle motorization, according to the previous claims, characteri zed by the fact that the forward movement of axial part 31 lets ball 42 come out from its seant on the lower part of glide 42, and the ball reaches the upper part 43 shifted into bore 44 of shaft 32, from which it partially rises enga ging in this way in longitudinal slot 42 of clutch pulley 27, thus determining the integral connection of the transmission half parts which set pinion 46 keyed on 32 in rotation and consequently, engaged in rack 47 of rim 48, lets the bicycle advance. 44 8 Device for bicycle motorization, according to the previous claims, charac.eri zed by the fact that the pinion is prevented ro rotating in the inversed sen se, which would be caused by the pedals in the engagement phase, by an idle wheel bearing 49 mounted between the transmission socket and the shaft wIth pinion. Between distance pieces 50, the set of small rollers 51 is employed fitted on containment cylinder 52 on flat half seats with slight conicity 53 which act as non return device by reducing the rotation space gradually and with natural curving 54 which allows the rotation in the correct sense.

## Description
Device for bicycle motorization .The invention1 refers to a device for motorizing The bicycle, which substantially foresees transmission half parts, to be inserted on command, of motor assembly sup power in an integral way on the frame bottom permanently engaged in a rack fitted on the inner border of correspondence of the back wheel min. To the pinion two movements can in this way be imposed one of the wheel traction in engaged con CT n by The motor assembly and an idle one imposed by The wheel with transmis sion half parts disengaged by means of the pedals.The bicycle with motor asser. bly to be engaged allows an employ versatility and substantially reduces the manufacturing and employ costs in comparison with the cyclomotors.These devices foresee a motor assembly with mobile articulation below the frame to allow two employ positions an engaged one, in which a roller wi transver sal position is brought against The tyre cover and lets it turn by friction, and the other in detached position. This proceeding has several inconveniences cclties ot operation in the case of wet road surface, since the roller slides or the cover, and heavy waste of tyre cover owing to friction.In addition, the mobile de articuled support requires damping and oscillating means and causes ar. intrinsec organolectic fragility.The invention permits a device to be supported in an integral way on the frame, directlytransmitting motion as impressed by the motor assembly, through half par 5 to be engaged on command on a pinion permanently engaged in The rack fitter on The wheel. The pinion an rim components with rack are foreseen in polymer resins, materials with high elasticity and 1friction resistance. A or assembly is employed which transmits to coupling pulley with control to be engaged in a shaft on which a pinion is constantly engaged in a rack fitted or.Ther correspondence border of the back wheel rim. Engagement is controlledDy means of a pushbutton which axially shifts a self lubricated cylinder on the pinion bearing shaft consequently, a ball, which was previosly positionned n ar. integrative cavity of the two shaft coaxial components, gets out on a slide partially and engages in another cavity of the coupling pulley thus dertiing the mo verment transmission from this one to the pinion hearing shaft. flnen the control is disactivated, the ball enters again into its seat and disengages the two tran missiori components the vehicle can thus be used by means of the pedals, while the pinion is idling.To prevent the inversed rotation of the pinion, which would be caused by the pe dals in the engagement phase, an idle wheel bearing is foreseen between the transmission socket and pinion supporting shaft, operating as directional check. Bet ween distance pieces, a longitudinal parallel set of small rollers is employed lea , ng on differently shaped half seats of the containment cylinder. A slightly con cal surface prevents from motion in its sense by gradual reduction of the rotation space, and the other, with natural bending, allows the free rotation. A not limiting version of the system execution is illustrated by the drawings ofTables 1, 2 and 3 where fig. 1 is the outer side view of the device supported on mine rame showing, with dashed lines, the two movement organs of the back wheel. Ig. 2 is the view of the same from above, showing the pinion engaging in the rack in The inside edge of the rim which can be seen in section. Fig. 3 is the part il view of the device. Fig. 4 is the londitudinal section of the transmission assembly in disengaged position. Fig. 5 is a particular of the previous figure section for showing the engaging phase to be obtained by shifting the control pushbuttom causing the partial getting out of the engagement ball from the shaft 3 D the pinlor. on the track above the glide. Fig. 6 is the sector of the bea ring tr isversal section with idle wheel,equipped with non return system. Fig.7 is a section. of The wheel equipped with the rack. Fig. 8 is a side view of the wneal if paat as per fig. 7. The assembly is supported by tubular frame 1 on two .z s the front one employs, on ear shaped parts 2, pivot 3 borne by antivibration coaxial part 4 which supports ribbed arm 5. The motor assembly 6 is for ed on parts 7 and 8 by means of screws 9 and 10, of wnacr, the former 9 blocks the components and 11, while screw 10 blocks chain guard 12 or quard 6. This part is additionally sopported by parts 13 and 14 on support 15 of frame 16, and part i7 to frame 16 by means of screws 18.The vanes of cylinder 19 and bead 20 have been foreseen, as well as cover 21 of ignition plug and support 22 of carburettor 23. Below, on face 24 and nuts 25, silencer 26 is fitted. The motor assembly dri In clutch pulley 27 on clutch bell 28 contained in structure 6 and bearing the transmission socket 29. The engagement is performed by pushbuttom 30 which lets cylinder 31 advance in shaft 32 borne in structure 12 by means of the supporting couple 32 and 33, and by structure 6 through sockets 29 sustained on radial seal bearing 34 and 35 and supporting bearing 36. Cylinder 31 is with self lubricating movement and employs shaft 37 whict is moved pumping effect in space 38 the bottom of which is closed by plug 39 with grease nipple 40 containing a solution of molibdene grease.The forward movement of axial part 31 lets ball 42 come out bore its seat on the lower part of glide 2, and the ball reaches the upper part 43 shifted into bore 44 of shaft 32, from which it partially rises engaging in this way in longitudi nal slot 42 of clutch pulley 27, thus determining the integral connection of the transr.3s1on half parts which set pinion 46 keyed on 32 in rotation and consequently, engaged in rack 47 of rim 48, lets the bicycle advance. The pinion is prevented from rotating in the inversed sense, which would be caused by the pedals in the engagement phase by an idle wheel bearing 49 mounted between the transmission socket and the shaft with pinion. Between distance pie ces 50, the set of small rollers 51 is employed fitted on countainment cylinder 52 on flat half seats with slight conicity 53 which act as non return device by reducing the rotation space gradually and with natural curving 5 which allows e rotations in the correct sense. The particular of execution, the materials, the shape fo the device body, the supporting means, as well as everything else on order may be carried out in different ways.