# Growth promotion of monogastric animals.

## Abstract
A method for improving the rate of growth and or feed conversion efficiency of monogastric animals. In the method, an effective growth promoting amount of Teichomycin A₂ or its physiologically acceptable salt, ester or amide is adminis tered to the animal.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A method for improving the rate of growth or the feed conversion efficiency of a monogastric animal which comprises administering to said animal at least one growth promoter selected from the group consisting of TeichomycinA2, its physiologically acceptable salts, its physiologically acceptable esters and its physiologically acceptable amides. 2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the growth promoter Is incorporated into a feed composition at a concentration of from 1 to 100 parts per million by weight. 3. The method of Claim 1 wherein the growth promoter is incorporated into a feed composition at a concentration of from 2 to 50 parts per million by weight. 4. The method of Claim 1 wherein the growth promoter is administered to said animal at a rate of from 0.04 to 10 milligrams of the growth promoter per kilogram of body weight per day. 5. The method cf Claim i wherein the growth promoter Is administered tc said animal at a rate of from 0.08 to 6 milligram cf the growth promoter per kilogram of body weight per day. 6. The method of Claim 4 or 5 wherein the monogastric animals are swine or poultry. 7. The method of Claim 2, 3, 4 or 5 wherein the growth promoter is Teichomycin A2. 8. A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the animals are pigs or chickens, the growth promoter is Teichomycin A2 which is administered in a feed composition containing from 2 to 50 parts per million by weight of Teichomycin A2 9. A growth promoting mixture of the mycelium from the culture medium in which Teichomycin A2 is produced and Teichomycin A2. 10. The mixture of Claim 9 combined with feed ingredients.

## Description
GROWTH PROMOTION OF MONOGASTRIC ANIMALSBackground of the Invention Historically, many antibiotics have been used in conjunction with animal feed in attempts to promote growth in monogastric animals, e.g., poultry and swine.The use of those antibiotics which are also used in the treatment of humans has not been readily accepted because of the possible development of pathogenic microorganisms resistant to such antibiotics.Additionally, the commercially used growth promoting antibiotics progressively decline in growth promoting activity in the later phases of production. The commercially available antibiotics used for growth promotion of monogastric animals, such as penicillin, the tetracyclines and sulfamethazine are thus not highly effective over the entire production period.Summary of the Invention It has now been discovered that Teichomycin A2, its physiologically acceptable salts, its physiologically acceptable esters, and its physiologically acceptable amides are effective as growth promoting agents growth promoters in monogastric animals, that is agents capable of improving either or both the rate o 3ot cr te feed conversion efficiency of monogastric animals . it appears that Teichomycin A2, and its physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides selectively alter the balance of normal intestinal microorganisms, favoring those microorganisms which are most beneficial for optimum growth and,or the feed conversion efficiency of the animal.Teichomycin A has shown unique growth promotion activity in swine, where a high level of improvement in average aa ly gain has been demonstrated in both the growing and finishing phases of production. The high level of activity shown by Teichomycin A2 in the finisher phase is not characteristic of the known antibiotic growth promoters. Commercia swine growth promoters such asAureo S P 250 a trademark of American Cyanamid Co. do not show sustaIned activity over the entire production period and are not efficacious in the finisher phase. The effectiveness of Teichomycin A is a monogastric growth promoter is due to its selective activity against anaerobic and facultative anaerobic bacteria which are normal inhabitants of the gastrointestinal tract. Teichomycin A2 alters the micro flora in such a way as to increase the efficiency of nutrient production and absorption. The antimicrobial profile of Teichomycin A2 is uniquely different from that of other antimicrobials such as kanamycin, neomycin, dimetridazole, and chloramphenicol which are not active as growth promoting agents for monogastric animals. Teichomycin A2 is highly active against bacteria such as Streptococcus andClostridium as compared to the non growth promoting antibictics. Compared to commercial monoc astrlc crown promoters, Teichomycin A2 exhibits a unique influence on the proliferation of normal inhabitants of the small intestine and caecum. In the presence ofTeichomycin A2, the growth of Streptococcus andClostridium species is inhibited, in contrast to penicillin which does not inhibit these organisms in vivo. Teichomycin A2 is described and claimed inU.S. Patent 4,239,751, patented December 16, 1980. The physiologically acceptable salts, physiologically acceptable esters and physiologically acceptable amides of Teichomycin A2 are readily prepared employing procedures weil known in the art. illustrative examples of the physiologically acceptable salts, esters and amides of Teichomycin A2 are further described below. Teichomycin A2 contains free carboxyl groups and thus exhibits the common property of an organic acid in that it forms salts. Representative of the inorganic bases forming physiologically acceptable cationic salts with Teichomycin A2 are, for example, the alkali metal hydroxides such as lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide the alkali metal carbonates and bicarbonates such as lithium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate the alkaline earth metal hydroxides and carbonates such as calcium hydroxide and magnesium carbonate and like inorganic bases. Illustrative of the organic bases forming physiologically acceptable salts with Teichomycin A2 are the primary, secondary and tertiary C1 C4 lower alkyl and lower hydroxyalkyl amines such as ethylamine, isopropylamine, diethylamine, methyl n butylamine, ethanolamine.and diethanolamine. The ammonium salts of Teichomycin A2 are prepared with ammonia or various ammonium hydroxides. Physiologicaily acceptable esters can readily be prepared by esterification of the carboxyl groups ofTeichomycin At to g ve esters such as alkyl esters, cycloalkyl esters ad aryl esters. Typical alkyl esters are, for example, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl or butyl esters. Typical cycloalkyl esters are cyclopropyl and cyclohexyl esters. Typical of the aryl esters are those such as the phenyl ester. Esters can also be made by acylation of one or more of the derivatives described herein having hydroxyl groups. For example, esters are made by acylation using groups such as formyl, acetyl, cyclohexylacetyl and benzoyl groups. Esters such as phosphate esters, can also be prepared from the hydroxyl groups cf Teichomycin A2. Physiologically acceptable amide derivatives ofTeichomycin A2 can be prepared employing amines such as ethyl glycine, ethyl amine, diethylamine, N methyl piperazine, or by employing acids such as acetic or succinic acid. As used hereIn the term physiologically acceptable when used in conjuction wit salts, esters or amides refers to those salts, esters or amides of Teichomycin A2 which will not cause significant adverse physiological effects when administered to an animal at dots ages conslstent with the method of the present er. tion. Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salt, ester or amide means at least one growth promoter selected from the group consisting of Teichomycin A2, its physiologically acceptable salts, its physiologically acceptable esters and its physiologically acceptable amides.In the method and coirrositions described herein, either Teicho mycin A2 or a physiologically acceptable salt, este or amide of Teichomycin A2 can be utilized individually or various combinations of Teichomycin A2 and its physiologically acceptable salts, esters an amides can be employed. The method of the present invention contemplates treating a monogastric animal with one of the composItions described herein. Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salt, ester or amide is administered to the monogastic animal in an amount sufficient to improve the rate of growth andjor the feed conversion efficiency of the animal. The Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salt, ester or amide can be administered to the animal at a rate of from 0.04 to 10 milligrams mg of the growth promoter per kilogram kg of animal body weight per day, preferably from 0.08 to 6 mg of the growth promoter per kg of animal body weight per day. The exact amount of the growth promoter to be employed will vary depending upon fast rs such as the species of animal or the si e weight, age, and health of the animal.For swine,Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salt ester or amide can be administered to the animal at a rat of from 0.04 to mg cf the growth promoter per kg of animal body weight per day, preferably from 0.08 to mc of the growth promoter per kg of animal body weight per day. For poultry, a rate of from 0.1 to 10 m of the growth promoter per kg of animal body weight per day is suitable for administration, with a rate of from 0.2 to 6 mg of the growth promoter per kg of animal body weight per day preferred. In particular cases, the concentration to be administered may be determined by conventional dose titration techniques. The Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salt, ester or amide is preferably administered orally to the monogastric animals as part of their normal food for example, in admixture with a usual solid feedstuff or in the form of a slow release feed pellet. The antibi tic material is incorporated into the feed at a concentration of from 1 to 100 parts pet mill on hereinafter ppm by weight of the ultimate composition and preferably in the range of from 2 to 50 ppm by weight of the ultimate composition. For commercial use, it is convenient to provide a feed additive premix. mIneral supplement or concentrate containing Teichomycin A2 cr its physiologically acceptable salt, ester or amide in a proportion such that a predetermined quantity of the premix or concentrate may be added to a quantity of complete feed.The feed additive premix or concentrate may contain from 0.05 to 80 by weight of Teichomycin A2 or its psiciogicaliy acceptable salt, ester or amide. The premlx feed ingredient is physiologically acceptable carrier such as soybean meal, corn meal or ground corn or other appropriate feed material. Premix ingredients may also include appropriate supplements such as vitamin or mineral supplements. E. W. Crampton, et al. Applied Animal Nutritic. W. H. Freeman and Company, San Francisco, California, 1969 and D. C. Church Livestock Feeds and Feeding, aistributed by O Books, Corvallis, Oregon, 1977 further describe the preparation of normal feedstuffs and the process of admixing compounds such as Teichomycin A2, or its physiologically acceptable salts, esters or amides with feed compositions, premixes and concentrates and are incorporated herein by reference. Teichomycin A can also be utilized in admixture with the mycelium resulting from the culture medium in which the Teichomycin A2 is produced. This mycellum mixture may optionally be combined with appropriate feed ingredients such as those described above to obtain suitable premixes, concentrates or complete feeds. The method of the present invention also contemplates treating monogastric animals, with one of the compositions containing Teichomycin A2 or its physiologically acceptable salt, ester or amide in combination with one or more additives such as coccidiostats, antibiotics, minerals, vitamins or any other physiologically beneficial agents employed in animal husbandry.Description of the Preferred Embodiments The following examples describe representative embodiments contemplated by the inventors of carrying ot the invention. The examples are ntended to further illustrate the invention but are not to be construec as a limitation thereon. In trials with swine, the following method was used with the indicated results. Example Crossbred weanling barrows weighing approximately 13.6 kilograms kg and of similar background were purchased. All pigs were eartagged for identification.From this number, 96 pigs of uniform weight, type and health were selected for actual use in the trial. These 96 pigs were blocked into 4 weight groups, heavy, medium heavy, medium light, and light. Each weight group was randomly assigned to a block of 8 pens.Treatments were randomly allotted to the 8 pens within each of the blocks. Each treatment appeared an equal number of times in each block, and each block contained all treatments, giving a randomized compiete block design see following Table 1 . TABLE 1RANDOMIZED COMPLETE BLOCKGrowth Promoter No. Reps. Block Total No. No.Treatment Level Block A B C D No. Reps. Pigs Rep. Pigs Treatment 1. Control 0 2 2 2 2 8 3 24 2. Teichomycin A2 5 Grams Ton 1 1 1 1 4 3 12 3. Teichomycin A2 15 Grams Ton 1 1 1 1 4 3 12 4. Aureo S P 250 250 Grams Ton 2 2 2 2 8 3 24 5. Lincomycin 40 Grams Ton 2 2 2 2 8 3 24TOTALS 8 8 8 8 32 15 96 Block A Medium HeavyBlock B Medium LightBlock C LightBlock D Heavy Aureo S P 250 Trademark of Ametican Cyanamid Co. Provided by 2.3 kg Ton of commetcial premix which gives 100 grams of Aureomycin, 100 grams ofSulfamethazine and 50 grams of Penicillin per ton of feed. Provided by 0.9 kg Ton of Lincomix 20 Tradematk of TUCO, Division of Upjohn Co. . Two basal ration formulations were used this trial a 16 Grower from 0 56 days, and a rinisher from 56 days to market weight at 112 days. These ration formulations are shown in the followingTables 2 and 3. The growth promoters tested were added to the basal formulations at the levels shown in Table 1 to make the 5 treatment rations. TABLE 2RATION FORMULATION 16 PIG GROWER Dig.Ingtedient Kg Ton DM1 Kg DM Ton Prot.2 Prot.3 TDN4 Ca P NaCl GroundCorn 9 75.00 680.40 66.75 605.56 6.675 5.325 61.50 0.015 0.232SoybeanMeal 44 22.25 201.85 20.02 181.67 9.750 8.766 17.58 0.060 0.140DicalciumPhosphate 1.00 9.07 0.96 8.71 0.222 0.179GroundLimestone 1.00 9.07 1.00 9.07 0.338TraceMineralizedSalt 0.50 4.54 0.50VitaminPremix 0.25 2.27TOTAL 100.00 907.20 88.73 805.01 16.425 14.091 79.08 0.635 0.551 0.5 1DM Dry matter 2Pro Protein 3Dig Prot. Digestible protein 4TDN Total digestible nutrients TABLE 3RATION FORMULATION 14 PIG FINISHER Dig.Ingredient Kg Ton DM1 Kg DM Ton Prot.2 Prot.3 TDN4 Ca P NaClGroundCorn 9 77.50 737.10 72.31 656.02 7.23 5.77 66.62 0.016 0.252SoybeanMeal 44 20.00 147.42 14.62 132.68 7.12 6.40 12.84 0.044 0.102DicalciumPhosphate 1.00 9.07 0.96 8.71 0.222 0.179GroundLimestone 0.75 6.80 0.75 6.80 0.254TraceMineralizedSalt 0.50 4.54 0.50VitaminPremix 0.25 2.27TOTAL 100.00 907.20 88.64 804.21 14.35 12.17 79.46 0.536 0.533 0.50 1DM Dry Matter 2Prot. Protein 3Dig.Prot. Digestible Protein 4TDN Total digestible nutrients The pigs were wallowed 5 da adjustment period to recover from the stress cf trucking and to become adapted to the basal ration, waterIng method d surroundings. The pigs were housed 3 pen in 1.2 meters m x 2.4 m enclosed pens. Temperature and humidity were controlled, the temperature being maintained at 19 210C.A concrete slab floor with no bedding was provided. The floor was washed down once each day. The pigs were group fed, 3 pen. Feed was available at all times from a 22. kg capacity Brower Single Door Hog Feeder. The ration was in the physical form of a meal. The feeding space allowed was 3 pigs self feeder opening. Water was provided by a continuous nipple type waterer. A suitable carrier, e.g., corn meal containing about 1.5 growth promoter was added to 4.5 kg of ground corn to form premix. The premix was then added to the quantity of feed to be mixed and the mix completed.Batch mixes of 227 to 454 kg depending on age and feed intake of the pigs of each treatment diet was made in a 454 kg capacity Marion Mixer. Mixing time was aSamples of each batch mix were taken for analysis. Each mix was weighed and put into 22.7 kg bags which were tagged with the date, treatment number, growth promoter concentration and the pen treatment. Bagged feed was stored in an air conditioned feed holding room. Table 4 summarizes growth results over a 112 day period. The pigs were weighed on day zero prior to treatment initiation and on the 28th, 56th, 84th and 112th days. TABLE 4 0 112 DAY SWINE TRIALAverage Average Daily Feed Conver Feed ConversionCompound and Daily Gain Gain Expressed sion Efficiency Efficiencyb AsLevel ppm kg day As of Control CVa kg Feed kg Gain of ControlControl 0.721 8.6 3.27 Aureo S P 250 250 0.748 104 9.2 3.33 102Lincomycin 40 0.762 106 5.7 3.32 102Teichomycin A2 5 0.785 109 3.8 3.22 98Teichomycin A2 15 0.789 109 6.3 3.14 96 statistical significance at the 95 confidence level standard deviation of replications a CV coefficient of variation x 100 mean of replications treated b of control x 100 a number less than 100 represents an control improvement in Feed Conversion Efficiency Ta e 5 surmarizes results during indr id ual weighing peri ds. TABLE 5 SWINE GROWTH PROMOTION DURING INDIVIDUAL WEIGHING PERIODS Average Dally Gain Control 0 28 28 56 56 84 84 112 Treatment Davs Davs Davs DavsTeichomycin A2 5 ppma 106 112 108 108 15 ppma 109 109 109 109xAureo S P 250 106 106 104 102 250 ppma,bLincomycin 40 ppma 105 105 104 104 Statistical significance at the 95 confidence level a Concentration in the feed b 100 ppm of Aureomycin, 100 ppm of Sulfamethazine and 50 ppm of Penicillin The data in Table 4 show that Teichomycin A2 improved the ate of weight gain and the feed conversion efficiency of swine during the 112 day production trial. n addition, Teichomycn A snowed a comparable lee of mprovement in rate of weight gain during both the growing and finishing phases of production Table 5 . The superiority of Teichomycin A2 in improving the rate of weight gain is seen by comparing its activity with that of the commercial feed additives Aureo S P 250 and lincomy cin. The high level of activity of Teichomycin A2 in the finishing phase 56 112 days is uniaue and 5 clearly demonstrated when compared with both com racial products The following data summarize feeding trials with young chickens. example 2A. Methods and MaterialsTest Animals Day old broiler chicks Hubbard White Rock Cockerels , pre conditioned for 3 days on certified Purina chick starter prior to initiating treatmentReplications 8 Replications of 2 chicks rep for each treatmentTest Diet Rye broiler diet2Testing Period 0 11 daysMeasurements Body Weights Individual body weight measurement on experimental days 0 and 11. Feed Consumption By pen 2 chicks pen for the 0 11 day testing periodFeeding Feed and water available ad libitumLighting Continuous lighting during entire trial Temperature 34. C Commercial Purina Lab Chick Chow S G diet Chemical Analysis Crude protein 21.6 Mixed Amino Acids 11.26 Fat 4.4 Fiber 3.4 Total Digestible Nutrients 80.5 Ash 6.G 2Rye broiler diet consisting of 1 3 Purina Lab Chick Chow S G and 2 3 Rye Basal Mix. Rye Basal Mix Ingredients Rye Corn 18.0 soybean Meal 27.0 Berring Fish Meal 5,0 Meat and Bone Meal 5.0 Dried Whey Product 1.0 Dehydrated Alfalfa 1.25 Corn Oil 4.0 Salt 0.22 Dicalcium Phosphate 0.5 limestone 0.67 Vitamin Premix 0.25 Trace Mineral Premix 0.05 DL Methionine 0.06 100. GO B.Effect of Teichomycin A2 TeA2 on Growth in Young Chickens A erae of2Two Trials TABLE 6 ADG1 F G2 Treatment Grams Day Control Ratio Cont ol Control 22.6 1.53 TeA2 0.5 ppm 23.2 103 1.505 98 1.0 23.1 102 1.53 100 2.5 23.7 105 1.495 98 , 5.0 24.3 1083 1.52 99 12.5 24.0 1063 1.49 97 25 24.5 1084 1.44 94 So 50 24.6 1094 1.435 94Penicillin 50 ppm 23.9 106 1.475 96 Virginlamycin 50 ppm 24.0 1063 1.51 99 1ADG Average daily gain 2F G Feed to gain ratio, grams feed grams gain a number less than 100 represents an improve ment in F G 3Statistical significance at the 95 confidence level 4Statistical significance at the 99 confidence level The data show that levels of Teichomycin A2 from 0.5 to 50 ppm in the diet improved the rate of gain of young chickens. Maximum improvement was seen between 5 and 50 ppm of Teichomycin A2 in the diet.Teichomycin A2 also improved the feed conversion efficiency i.e., lowered F G ratio at several different concentrations in the diet.