# Improved polyurea foams.

## Abstract
Polyurea foam formulations, prepared by reacting a polymeric isocyanate with an aqueous activator component, and having incorporated therein a small but density lowering and or compressive strength enhancing amount of a lower alkanol or alkylenediol, preferably having up to and including six 6 carbon atoms, especially isopropanol, are disclosed.

## Claims
WE CLAIM 1. A polyurea foam prepared by reacting a polyphenyl polymethylene polyisocyanate with water in the presence of a catalyst and having incorporated therein a small but density lowering amount or compressive strength increasing amount of a lower alkanol or alkylenediol. 2. A polyurea foam of Claim 1 wherein the amount of lower alkanol or alkylenediol is up to about 15 based upon the weight of polyphenyl polymethylene polyisocyanate. 3. A polyurea foam of Claim 2 wherein the amount of lower alkanol or alkylenediol is up to about 5 based upon the weight of polyphenyl polymethylene polyisocyanate. 4. A polyurea foam of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the loweralkanol or alkylenediol has up to and including six carbon atoms. 5. A polyurea foam of Claim 4, wherein the lower alkanol is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, and butanol. 6. A polyurea foam of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the alkanol is isopropanol. 7. A polyurea foam of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the alkylenediol is ethylene glycol or propylene glycol. 8. A polyurea foam of Claim 1, 2, or 6, having incorporated therein a flame retardant additive. 9. A polyurea foam of Claim 1, 2, or 6, having incorporated therein a filler. 10. A polyurea foam of Claim 8, wherein the flame retardant additive is selected from the group consisting of alumina trihydrate, tris dichloropropyl phosphate, and mixtures thereof. 11. A polyurea foam of Claim 9, wherein the filler is a compressivc strength improving amount of fly ash or 1 calcium sulfate. 12. A polyurea foam of Claim 11, wherein the filler is fly ash. 13. A polyurea foam of Claim 11, having incorporated therein a flame retarding amount of tris dichloropropyl phosphate. 14. A polyurea foam of Claim 1 or 2, having incorporated therein a foam blowing amount of a haloethane or halomethane. 15. A polyurea foam of Claim 14, wherein the halomethane is trichlorofluoromethane.

## Description
IMPROVED POLYUREA FOAMSINTRODUCTION This invention relates to polyurea foam compositions. ore particularly, this invention provides new, improved polyurea foam compositions which are of lesser density and or have improved compressive strength than polyurea foams without the additives disclosed herein. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Polyurea foam compositions are relatively recent innovations in the foam art which have a relatively low density 3 3 about 0.5 lb ft 8 kg m . These polyurea foams were developed mostly for use as retrofit insulation, show much greater resistance to ignition by small scale sources than previously known urethane foams of the same low density, and are usually produced by reacting a polymeric isocyanate, especially a polyphenyl polymethylene polyisocyanate, and an aqueous activator formulation, the essential ingredients of which are water and a catalyst. Significant latitude in mixing ratio of polymeric isocyanate to water e.g., 7.5 1 to 3 1, equivalent weight basis is possible in these polyurea foam compositions, giving a wide range of reactivity values with little change in physical properties of the foam. The original polyurea foam aqueous activator formulation comprised the following Ingredient Parts by Weight H2C 15 2 methylimidazole 4 Pluracol 492 G61 0.25 surfactant This aqueous activator formulation had a number of deficiencies in its process and handling parameters. Specifically, this formulation was very corrosive having a pH of about 10 , had a tendency to form polyurea foam base holes large voids at the base of a foam container , and the 2 methylimidazole catalyst had a tendency to crystallize out of solution at temperatures below 10 C. More recently, an improved aqueous activator formulation has comprised the following Ingredient Parts by Weight 1120 15 2 methylimidazole 2 2.0 1,2 dimethylimidazole 1.0 Boric acid 1.0 Pluronic0R L 62 1 0.25 Sodium mercaptobenzothiazole 0.02Such an aqueous activator formulation, while containing additional components, gives better processing latitude in making the polyurea foam, is storage stable to 0 C, and is much less corrosive to commonly used storage and process equipment materials. Considerable development work by others in varying ratios of reactants in formulations has been done to determine the effects of polyol addition and the effects of various flame retardants in these polyurea foam compositions. Such results are shown by the following tables.1 Pluronic L 62 Poly oxyethylens poly oxypropylene BASF Wyandotte EFFECTS OF POLYOL ADDITION H2O 21 21 21Fyrol CEF 1 30 25 15 2 MI 2 4 4 4LG 168 3 10 21RUBINATE M 4 100 100 100Cream 14 13 14End Rise 65 70 80Density Kg m 6.4 6.3 6.7Bunsen Test Very Good Good FairN.B. CEF added to activator which gave unstable emulsion.Addition to isocyanate stable mixture showed no change in results.Substitution of Fyrol PCF for CEF resulted in coarser texture and reduced resistance to ignition.1 Fyrol CEF tris beta chloroethyl phosphate Stauffer Chem. Co. 2 2 MI 2 methylimidazole 3 LG 168 poly oxypropylene adduct of glycerol Union Carbide Corp.4 Rubinete M polymeric isocyanate Rubicon Chem. Co. polyphenyl polymethylene polyisocyanate EFFECTS OF VARIOUS FIRE RETARDANTSFyrol CEF 30 45 pbw. Reduced friability, increased resistance to ignition. Substitute 1,2 DMI 2 pbw Slight shrinkage, reduced for 2 MI 4 pbw physical properties.Inclusion of NH4 salts Ammonium Sulphonate Collapse Ammonium Bromide Collapse Diammonium hydrogen phos Partial collapse, coarse. phateVircol 82 2 prepolymer Fine texture, slight shrinkage, reduced ignition resistance.Chlorinated Paraffins Partial collapse, coarse.N.B. Choice of organic fire retardants is critical. Those that promote formation of oil in water emulsions during mixture of the activator and isocyanate usually result in collapsed foams. This is due to loss of blowing agent through the continuous phase.1 1,2 t1 11 1, 2 dirrethylimidazole 2 Vircol 82 phosphorus containing polyol, 11.3 P Mbbil Chemical Co. EFFECTS OF RATION AND CATALYST LEVEL CHANGESSample 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 H2O pbw 15.0 22.6 25.0 28.2 37.3 28.8 29.2 29.6 31.05 2 methyl Imidazole 2.0 3.0 2.0 3.8 5.0 3.4 3.2 2.85 1.9 1,2 dimethyl Imidazole 1.0 1.5 1.0 1.9 2.5 1.7 1.6 1.42 .95Boric Acid Tech 1.0 1.5 1.0 1.9 2.5 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.9Pluronic L 62 0.25 0.38 .25 .47 .62 .47 .47 .47 .47Sodium Mercapto Benzothiazole NAMBT 0.02 0.03 .02 .036 .048 .036 .036 .036 .036Fyrol CEF 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0RUBINATE M 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Ratio Iso Activator 7.5 1 5 1 7.5 1 4 1 3 1 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 1Reactivity sec. Cream 12 7 16 6 5 8 9 10 21 End Rise 72 40 65 50 35 57 67 75 130 Tack Free 75 40 60 50 35 57 67 75 155Density lb ft .41 .43 .50 .40 .48Exotherm 40 x 40 x 36 300 F 192 F 190 F 185 F 180 FComments scorch no excess no no 10 17 25 50 scorch H2O on scorch scorch catalyst fine 5 1 fine fine removed cell no cell cell scorch softer ratio retained by H2O addition base than holes 1 no slightly coarse scorch coarseRMC S 1b 2 1 77 0.63 0.66 0.62 However, the foregoing foam compositions are more dense than desired for some applications. Those in the art continue to study to learn how to produce less dense polyurea foam compositions which retain substantial compressive strength and flame retardant properties in an economical manner.In other cases, compressive strength is less than desired and could well be improved.OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION An object of this invention is to provide polyurea foams of lower density and or higher compressive strength than prior art foam compositions. It is another object of this invention to provide light weight foam compositions for use in the packaging industry or for filling cavities as insulation while retaining sufficient compressive strength for practical utility in an economical manner. It is another object of this invention to provide a process for providing lower density polyurea foams using mono functional alcohols which do not impair the compressive strength or flame retardant properties of the resulting polyurea based foam composition, or certain di functional alcohols which enhance the compressive strength of the foam. Other objects, advantages, and purposes of the invention will be apparent to one skilled in the art from a reading of the specification and claims which follow. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Briefly, according to this invention it has been discovered that lower density and or higher compressive strength polyurea foam compositions can be prepared by incorporating into the formulations used to make said foams one or more mono or di functional alcohols, especially a lower alkanol or alkylenediol, and preferably such a loweralkanol or alkylenediol having up to and including six 6 carbon atoms1 representatively methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, l butanol, methyl 2 butyl alcohol, ethylene glycol, and propylene glycol, but particularly isopropanol, into the foam, as by mixing into the aqueous activator component or polyurea foam formulation before blending the aqueous activator formulation with the polymeric isocyanate normally used to make said polyurea foam composition.We have discovered that the inclusion of such alcohol into the polyurea formulation enhances the lower density property while not reducing the compressive strength and flameretardant properties obtainable in the resulting polyureabased foams, and frequently improves the compressive strength of the resulting foam, especially in the case of the alkylenediols. The concepts and principles of the present invention, as demonstrated with respect to polyurea foam compositions, can also be applied with full advantage to urethane modified urea based foam compositions as well as isocyanurate urea foam compositions. We have also discovered that 1 calcium sulfate and fly ash, added to these formulations, provide higher compressive strength to the resulting polyurea foam 2 addition of tris 2 chloropropyl phosphate flame retardant with trichiorofluorometbane blowing agent increases the oxygen index resistance to flame of the polyurea foam 3 the flame resistance of thepolyurea foam increases as the content of the fly ash is increased in the formulation 4 the density of the polyurea foam is increased as the fly ash content is increased, as does the friability of the foam 5 the flame resistance of the polyurea foam with the addition of both tris dichloropropyl phosphate and alumina trihydrate is not higher than that with the tris dichloropropyl phosphate alone in the foam 6 addition of trichlorofluoromethane blowing agent to the polyurea foam composition causes an increase in the rise time and tack free time in the processing of the foams, does not significantly effect the density of the foam at 10 weight percent based on the isocyanate component but does effect a lowering of the density of the polyurea foam as the content of the blowing agent increases to 20 weight percent, based on the weight of the .isocyanate componentp 7 if fly ash is used to increase compressive strength of the polyurea foam, it is better not to use alumina trihydrate as the flame retardant therein because the combination of fly ash and alumina trihydrate has the effect of lowering compressive strength of the polyurea foam 8 the compressive strength of the polyurea foam is increased as the content of fly ash is increased to 20 weight percent based on the weight of the isocyanate see Table X , and then gradually decreased as the content of the alumina trihydrate fly ash mixture 10 weight percent fly ash to 40 weight percent aluminum trihydrate, based on isocyanate increases to over 50 percent of the polyurea foam formulation weight and 9 the K factors for the various modified polyurea foams from 0.42 to 0.52 of this invention are higher than expected compared to a K factor of 0.22 for a carbondioxide blown polyurethane foam of about 2 pcf. . This higher K factor is due to lower density and open cell structure of the resulting polyurea foams compared to conventional polyurethane foams having densities of 1.5 to 3 pcf. A further and more concise summary of this invention is set forth in the claims appended hereto.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION More specifically, we have discovered that polyurea foam compositions with an isocyanate index ranging from about 40 to about 110 can be modified in advantageous ways by incorporation of an alcohol, especially a lower alkanol or alkylenediol, and preferably such a lower alkanol or alkylenediol having up to and including six 6 carbon atoms, representatively methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, l butanol, and methyl 2 butyl alcohol thereinto, as by inclusion of said alcohol in the aqueous activator component of the polyurea foam composition before it is mixed with the polymeric isocyanate component, to effectively reduce the density of the foam while not reducing substantially the compressive strength and the flame retardant values of the resulting polymeric foam, and or to increase the compressive strength of the resulting foam, as when an alkylenediol is employed. The amount of alkanol or alkylenediol is usually up to about 15 , preferably up to about 5 , based on the weight of polyphenyl polymethylene polyisocyanate in the starting foam composition. The addition of such an alcohol thus causes density reduction and frequently increased compressive strength in the resulting polyurea foam. The results are set forth in the detailed examples which follow. The data show that methanol, ethanol, or isopropanol produce a substantial density reduction in the polyurea foam. The addition of l propanol or l butanol usually causes a density drop in the resulting foam. The largest effect in reducing density of the foam was found upon adding isopropanol into the formulation. Even in polyurea foams containing alumina trihydrate, the addition of isopropanol reduced the density of the resulting foam. Upon studying these various foams, it was found that the compressive strength was also improved upon adding isopropanol and calcium sulfate or fly ash to the polyurea foam formulation. The examples further show that the compressive strength of the polyurea foam was improved by adding ethylene glycol or other alkylenediol, e. g., propylene glycol, to the formulation.The added alcohols not only expanded the foam to a lower density, but probably also reacted with the polymeric isocyanate component of the foam to form urethane structures which changed the compressive strength in the polyurea foam composition. The properties of these new polyurea foams, modifiedwith alumina trihydrate and alkanols or alkylenediols, e.g., isopropanol, are set forth in the examples. Using the oxygen index as an indicator, as shown in the tables, the polyurea foams containing the added amount of selected monoor dihydric alcohol were self extinguishing as the alumina trihydrate reached about 20 weight percent, based on isocyanate content. The oxygen index was also increased by adding a small amount of a flame retardant, such as Fyrol R FR 2 tris 2 chloropropyl phosphate to the polyurea foam formulation which contained the alumina trihydrate. In conjunction with our studies on the density of foam, we have discovered that the inclusion of an additional catalyst, for example, T 12 dibutyl tin dilaurate increased the processing rate of the resulting polyurea foam and increased slightly the compressive strength of the resulting polyurea foam composition. The advantage of incorporating the added components into polyurea foam formulations is illustrated by the following detailed Preparations and Examples setting forth the formulations, the processing times, and the properties of the resulting foams. Preparations 1 to 3VARYING ISOCYANATE INDEX I.I OF UNMODIFIED POLYUREAFOAMS BY VARYING WATER CONTENT IN FORMULATIONS The following polyurea foams were prepared by the one shot method a homogeneous liquid mixture containing water, surfactant, and catalyst was blended with the required amount of polymeric isocyanate reactant using a high speed stirrer. The blended mixture was poured into a paper carton and was allowed to rise freely and cure at room temperature. All foams were conditioned for one week at room temperature before testing. I.I x 100 Table I ISOCYANATE INDEX ON POLYUREA FOAMS Preparations 1 to 3FORMULATION 1 2 3Mondur MR, g 1 102 100.3 101.2H2O, g 13.5 9.0 6.44A 51806, g 2 1.0 1.0 1.0 L 540, g 3 2.0 2.0 2.0I.I. 51.1 75.4 106.3PROCESSINGCream time, sec. 20 15 15Rise Time, sec. 40 45 40Tack free time, sec. 60 55 80PROPERTIESDensity, pcf. 0.4614 0.4286 0.5346j Dimensional change at Thermal aging at 1200C 0 0 0 for 4 days Humidity aging at 700C 0 0 0 and 100 RH for 3 daysCompressive strength, psi 1.69 1.94 2.26 1 1.30 1.25 2.01 1 Polymeric MDI Mbbay Chemical Co.2 A 51806 Polycat 17 Abbott Labs.3 b540 Silicone copolymer surfactant Union Carbide Testing of Foams 1. Density ASTM D 1564 A specimen with the size of 2 x 2 x 2 was cut from the foam and used for the density test.2. Compressive Strength ASTM D 1621 Specimens with the dimensions of 2 x 2 x 1 were used for the test. The compressive strength was calculated from the maximum load a yield point or a 10 deformation was reached , dividing the area of cross sections.3. Dimensional Change ASTN D 2126 75 Specimens with dimensions of 4 x 4 x 1 were used for the test. The conditions for thermal aging and humid aging test were chosen at 1200C and 700C, 100 relative humidity, respectively.4. Oxygen Index ASTN D 2863 The Michigan Chemical Oxygen Index Tester, Model 95 001 01, was used for measurements. The dimensions of specimens were 1 2 x 1 2 x 5 . The oxygen index O.I was calculated using the following equation EMI15.1 where 02 and N2 are volumetric flow rate of 2 and N2, respectively. Polyurea foams with low isocyanate index I.I 25 collapsed during the processing and no further measurements were made on them. Properties of unmodified polyurea foams with various isocyanate index numbers, ranging from 50.1 to 106.3 because of differences in water content in their formulations, are set forth above. There was no significant density change of polyurea foams with various isocyanate index changes. These polyurea foams exhibited excellent dimensional stability.on thermal aging and humid aging.Examples 1 to 5EFFECT OF VARIOUS LOWER ALKANOLS AND ALKYLENE GLYGOLS ONPROPERTIES OF POLYUREA FOAMS. The following polyurea foam formulations were prepared by the one shot method as described in the preparation description above, except that about five grams of methanol, i ethanol, isopropanol, l butanol, or ethylene glycol, respectively, were included in the foam formulation recipe, and the resulting foam was compared with a foam formulation containing no such alcohol additive standard . The formulations were selected to approximate the same I.I. about 75 , as indicated from Preparation 2 above. The alkanols and glycol addition was done by promising the indicated amount of the alcohol or glycol with the water containing mixture and that resulting water mixture was mixed or blended with the isocyanate reactant to form the total urea foam making composition. Table II EFFECTS OF ALCOHOLS ON POLYUREA FOAMS ExamplesFORMULATION standard 1 2 3 4 5Mondur MR, g 100.3 100.4 101.0 100.5 101.11 100.9H20, g 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0Methanol, g 4.0 Ethanol, g 5.0Isopropanol, g 5.0 1 Butanol, g 5.0Ethylene glycol, g 5.0A 51806, g 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.5 2.0 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Isocyanate index without alcohols 75.4 75.5 75.9 75.6 76.2 75.9 PROCESSINGCream time, sec. 15 12 12 20 20 20Rise time, sec. 45 15 40 60 45 30Tack free time, sec. 55 45 60 70 55 40PROPERTIESDensity, pcf. 0.4286 0.405 0.395 0.3441 0.4321 0.425Oxygen index 19.75 19.75Compressive strength, psi 1.94 1.98 1.84 1.91 1.54 2.36 1.25 1.70 1.21 1.41 1.44 0.79Dimensional change Thermal aging 1200C, 4 days 0 0 0 0 Humid aging 70 C, 100 RH 3 days 0 0 0 0 Examples 6 to 9EFFECT OF ISOPROPANOL WITH AND WITHOUT ALS .5INA TRIHYDRATE ON PROPERTIES OF POLYUREA FOAM COMPOSITIONS The following polyurea foam formulations were prepared containing none or about 5 grams of isopropanol in the foam formulation, either as the only additional additive Example 9 or with or without about 40 grams of alumina trihydrate in the foam formulation standard Example 7 . Both the isopropanol and the alumina trihydrate were introduced into the formulations by adding the indicated amounts of each into the water containing mixtures1 as indicated in the Preparations hereinabove, and then the water based reactant mixture was blended with the polymeric isocyanate reactant mixture component for foam formation. Table III EFFECTS OF ISOPROPANOL ON POLYUREA FOAMS ExamplesFORMULATION standard 7 8 9Mondur MR, g 99.4 99.45 100.3 100.1 H20, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5Isopropanol, g 5.0 5.0A 51806, g 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Al203 3H20, g 40.9 39.9Isocyanate Index without alcohols 49.8 49.8 50.3 50.2PROCESSINGCream time, sec. 25 25 30 25Rise time, sec. 45 55 45 55Tack free time , sec. 55 65 60 65PROPERTIESDensity, pcf 0.757 0.663 0.417 0.385Oxygen index 23.25 23.25 20.25 20.25Compressive strength, psi It 0.70 1.211 1.32 1.311 0.79 1.12 1.06 1.30Examples 10 and 11EFFECT OF ETHYLENE GLYCOL ON POLYUREA FOAMS MODIFIED WITHALUMINA TRIHYDRATEThe following polyurea foam formulations were prepared containing none or about 5 grams of ethylene glycol in the formulations. Both formulations also contained about 40 grams of alumina trihydrate. These glycol and alumina additives were added to the water surfactant catalyst mixture described in the foregoing Preparations and the resultant aqueous mixtures were blended with the polymeric isocyanate component for foam formation as in the foregoing. TABLE IV EFFECT OF ETHYLENE GLYCOL ON POLYUREA FOAMS MODIFIED WITH ALUMINA TRIHYDRATE ExamplesFORMULATION 10 11 Mondur MR, 9 99.1 100.3 H20, 9 13.5 13.5 Ethylene glycol, g 5.0 A 51806, 9 1.5 1.5 L 540, 9 v 2.0 2.0 Al2O3 3H2O, g 40.9 40.0 Isocyanate index without alcohols 49.7 50.3PROCESSING Cream time, sec. 25 25 Rise time, sec. 45 45 Tack free time, sec. 55 50PROPERTIES Density, pcf 0.757 0.766 Oxygen index 23.25 23.25 Compressive strength, psi II 0.70 1.32 1 0.79 1.42 The above Examples illustrate that The addition of methanol, ethanol, and isopropanol produced lower density in polyurea foams.The addition of l butanol and ethylene glycol apparently did not produce any substantial reduction in foam density. No significant improvement in foam cell structure was noted by the addition of l propanol. The biggest effect in reducing density of the foams as produced by adding isopropanol to the formulations. Even in the polyurea foams containing alumina trihydrate, addition of isopropanol also reduced the density of the resulting foams. Moreover, the data show that the compressive strength of the resulting polyurea foams was also improved by the addition of isopropanol or ethylene glycol. In theory, to which we do not wish to be bound, apparently the alcohol or ethylene glycol may not only expand the polyurea foam composition to a lower density, but the alcohol or glycol probably also reacts with the isocyanate to form urethane structures which change the csmpressive strength of the resulting polyurea foam.Examples 12 to 16EFFECT OF ISOPROPANOL, ALUMINA TRIHYDRATE, AND FLAME RETARDANTON PROPERTIES OF POLYUREA FOAM FORMULATIONS The following polyurea foams Table V illustrate further the effects of adding alumina trihydrate and isopropanol to the polyurea foam formulation, as well as a flame retardant, here Fyrol FR 2 Table Vl . The indicated amounts of isopropanol, alumina trihydrate, and flame retardant were blended into the aqueous liquid phase as described above, before blending it with the polymeric isocyanate component of the formulation. TABLE V EFFECT OF FIRE RETARDANT ALUMINA TRIHYDRATE ON POLYUREA FOAMS ExamplesFORMULATION 12 13 14 Hondur MR, 9 100.1 100 99.45H20, 9 13.5 13.5 13.5Isopropanol, 9 5.0 5.0 5.0A 51806, g 1.5 1.5 1.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0Al2O3 3H2O, g 19.5 39.9Isocyanate Index 50.2 50.2 49.8PROCESSINGCream time, sec. 25 25 25Rise time, sec. 55 60 55Tack free time, sec. 65 73 65PROPERTIESDensity, pcf 0.385 0.555 0.663Oxygen index 20.25 21.25 23.25 Compressive strength, psi II 1.34 1.74 1.24 1 1.30 1.20 1.12 TABLE VI EFFECT OF FYROL FR 2 ON POLYUREA FOAMS MODIFIED WITH ALUMINA TRIHYDRATEFORMULATION Examples 15 16Mondur MR, 9 99.45 99.1H20, 9 13.5 13.5Isopropanol, 9 5.0 5.0A 51806, g 1.5 1.5 L 540, 9 2.0 2.0Al2O3 3H20, 9 39 9 40.8Fyrol FR 2, 9 5.0Isocyanate Index 49.8 49.7PROCESSINGCream time, sec. 25 25Rise time, sec. 55 55Tack free time, sec. 65 70PROPERTIESDensity, pcf 0.663 0.612Oxygen index 23.25 24.75 Compressive strength, psi II 1.24 1.33 1 1.12 1.08 The oxygen index figures for these polyurea foams indicatethe relative flame resistance of the resulting polyurea foams, the higher the oxygen index the higher the flame resistance of the foam materials. The polyurea foams were self extinguishing as the content of the alumina trihydrate reached about 20 percent by weight based on isocyanate weight content. The oxygen index was also increased by adding a small amount of the flame retardant, hereFyrol FR 2, in the polyurea formulation which contained alumina trihydrate.Examples 17 to 18EFFECT OF COMBINATION OF CATALYSTS ON PROPERTIES OFPOLYUREA FOAM FORMULATIONS The following polyurea foam formulations were made by the one shot procedure described above so as to contain isopropanol, alumina trihydrate, and one A 51806 or two A 51806 plus T 12 catalyst components in the formulation for foam formation. The isopropanol, alumina, and catalyst components were added v e the aqueous phase before the aqueous phase was blended with the polymeric isocyanate component. TABLE VII EFFECT OF CATALYST T 12 ON POLYUREA FOAMS MODIFIED WITH ALUMINA TRIHYDRATE ExamplesFORMULATION 17 18 Mondur MR, 9 99.45 96.8 H2O, g 13.5 13.5 Isopropanol, 9 5.0 5.0 A 51806, g 1.5 1.5 T 12, g 0.1 L 540, 9 2.0 2.0 Al2O3 3H2O, g 39.9 40.1 Isocyanate index 49.8 48.5PROCESSING Cream time, sec. 25 20 Rise time, sec. 55 50 Tack free time, sec. 65 55PROPERTIES. Density, pcf 0.663 0.668 Oxygen index 23.25 23.25 Compressive strength, psi II 1.24 1.34 1. 1.12 1.31 The test data on these resulting foams show that the addition of the second catalyst component, T 12, increased the processing rate and increased the compressive strength of the resulting foam We believe the improved compressive strength property of the foam was probably due to more complete reaction in the polyurea foams.Examples 19 to 22EFFECT OF CALCIUM SULFATE AND FLY ASH ON PROPERTIES OFPOLYUREA FOAMS The following polyurea foam formulations were made by the one shot procedure described above so as to contain the indicated amounts of calcium sulfate or fly ash in the respective formulations. The calcium sulfate or fly ash components were added via the aqueous phase before the aqueous phase was blended with the polymeric isocyanate component. Table IX Effect of Calcium Sulfate on Polyurea Foams ExamplesFORMULATION standard 19 20Mondur MR, g 101.85 100.05 100.0 H20, g 13.5 13.5 13.5Isopropanol, g 5.0 5.0 5.0A 53234, g 2.0 2.0 2.0L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0CaSO4 1 2H2O, g 20.0 40.0 Isocyanate Index 51.1 50.2 50.1 without alcohol PROCESSINGCream time, sec 25 30 25Rise time, sec 45 65 75Tack free time, sec 55 80 90PROPERTIESDensity, pcf 0.353 0.530 0.666 Oxygen index 20.25 20.25 20.75Compressive strength, psi II 1.26 1.57 1.29 0.98 1.37 1.00K factor, btu in hr ftê F 0.52 0.47 Table X Effect of Fly Ash on Polyurea Fonms ExamplesFORMULATION standard 21 22Mondur MR, g 101.85 101.44 101.95H2O, g 13.5 13.5 13.5Isopropanol, g 5.0 5.0 5.0 A 53234, g 2.0 2.0L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0Fly ash, g 20.0 40.0Isocyanate Index without alcohol 51.1 50.9 51.1PROCESSING Cream time, sec 25 25 25Rise time, sec 45 43 45Tack free time, sec 55 55 55PROPERTIESDensity, pcf 0.353 0.504 0.668Oxygen index 20.25 20.25 20.75 Compressive strength, psi 1.26 1.57 1.24 0.98 1.47 1.10 K factor, 0.52 0.46 btu in hr ft EFFECT OF CALCIUM SULFATE AND FLY ASH ON POLYUREA FOAMS The properties of polyurea forms modified with calcium sulfate and fly ash are listed in Tables IX end X. The results showed that the effect of both materials on the properties of the resulting foams was similar.No significant improvement in fire retardance was observed from the oxygen index data. The compressive strength data showed that the polyurea foams containing 20 wt based on isocyanate of calcium sulfate or fly ash had higher compressive strengths. Even the polyurea foams containing 40 wt of calcium sulfate or fly ash did not exhibit reduced compressive strengths. The only difference between these two additives was that the addition of calcium sulfate caused a slower rate in the processing of the polyurea foams, hereas the addition of fly ash did not.The slower rate from the addition of calcium sulfate in the polyurea foams may possibly be due to the increased viscosity of the premixed cmponent of isocyanate and calcium sulfate in the processing. Examples 23 to 31 EFFECT OF Fyrol FR 2 AND Phos Chek FLAME RETARDANTS AND Freon 11B BLOWING AGENT ON POLYUREA FOAM COMPOSITIONS MODIFIED WITH ISOPROPANOL The following polyurea foam formulations were made by the cneshot procedure described above so as to contain the indicated amounts of Phos Chek brand of ammonium polyphosphate flame retardant or Fyrol FR 2 brand of tris dichloropropyl phosphate flame retardant in the respective formulations. The flame retardant components were added via the aqueous phase before the aqueous phase was blended with the polymeric isocyanate component. Also, in some of the exemplified formulations, the indicated amount of Freon llB brand of trichlorofluoromethane blowing agent component was added via the aqueous phase before the aqueous phase was blended with the polymeric isocyanate component. Table XI Effect of Phos Chek z on Polyurea Foams Examples FORMULATION Standard 23 24 Mondur MR, l 101.3 100.0 100.0 20, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 Isopropanol, g 5.0 5.0 5.0 A 53234, 1 g 2.0 2.0 2.5 DC 198, 2 g 2.0 2.0 2.0 Phos Chek, g 20.0 20.0 Isocyanate Index without alcohol 50.8 50.1 50.1 PROCESSING Cream time, sec 30 Rise time, sec 55 Tack free time, sec 60 PROPERTIES Density, pcf 0.359 no reaction no Oxygen index 20.00 reaction Compressive strength, psi 1.00 0.89 1 A 53234 tert. amine catalyst Abbott Labs. 2 DC 198 Silicone surfactant Dow Corning Corp. Table XII Effect of Fire Retardant Fyrol FR 2 on Polyurea Foams with Freon 11B as Blowing Agent ExamplesFORMULATION standard 25 26 27 Nondur MR, g t 102.0 102.9 101.1 103.3H2O, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5Isopropanol, g 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Freon 11B, g 10.0 20.0 20.0 20.0Fyrol FR 2, g 10.0 20.0Isocyanate Index without alcohol 51.2 51.6 50.7 51.8PROCESSINGCream time, sec 25 25 25 20Rise time, sec 45 60 50 50Tack free time, sec 60 70 60PROPERTIESDensity, pcf 0.382 0.401 0.393 0.404Oxygen index 20.25 20.25 22.75 23.75 Table XIII Effect of Freon llB on Polyurea Foams ExamplesFORMULATION standard 28 29 30 31Mondur MR, g 101.3 100.35 200.0 99.35 201.2H20, g 13.5 13.5 27.0 13.5 27.0Isopropanol, g 5.0 5.0 10.0 5.0 10.0A 53234, g 2.0 2.0 4.0 2.0 4.0DC 198, g 2.0 2.0 4.0 2.0 4.0Freon 11, g 10.0 10.0 40.0Al2O31 2H2O, g 80.0 40.0 80.0Fly ash, g 20.0 10.0 20.0Isocyanate Index without alcohol 50.8 50.3 50.1 49.8 50.4PROCESSINGCream time, sec 30 35 30 35 35Rise time, sec 55 65 50 75 75Tack free time, sec 60 75 60 90 95PROPERTIESDensity, pcf 0.359 0.363 0.853 0.800 0.688Oxygen index 20.00 20.25 23.25 23.25 23.25Compressive strength, psi 11 1.00 1.21 1.06 0.87 1.14 0.89 0.96 0.99 0.69 0.54K factor, btu in hr ft20F 0.42 0.52 EFFECT OF FIRE RETARDANTS ON POLYUREA FOAMSThe addition of Phos Che A flame retardant in polyurea foams caused no reaction in the resulting formulation.This is probably due to the interaction between the catalyst and Phos Chek R . The addition of Fyrol R FR 2 flame retardant in the polyurea foams with Freon 11B as blowing agent as shown in Table XII Examples 28 31 resulted in an increase of oxygen index but no significant increase in the densities of the resulting polyurea foams as the content of Fyrol FR 2 increased. This result also indicated that Fyrol FR 2 had better fire retardance in the polyurea foams than alumina trihydrate, the results of which were described in the Examples hereinabove. In addition to having better fire retardance and only a slight change in the density of the resulting polyurea foams Fyrol pR 2 in the polyurea foam formulation did not affect the rate of reaction in the processing.These advantages may be applied to the preparation of polyurea foams modified with the combination of Fyrol FR 2, alumina trihydrate and fly ash. The results are listed in Tables XV and XVI,Examples 35 41, infra. It was found that the flame resistance increased as the content of fly ash increased in the formulation. An increase in density was mainly due to the addition of fly ash in the system. The friability of the resulting foams increased as the fly ash content increased in the formulation.The flame resistance with the addition of Fyrol FR 2 and alumina trihydrate was not higher than that with Fyrol FR 2 alone in the polyurea foams. Compare oxygen indices in TablesXV and XVI, in Examples 35 41, infra. EFFECT OF FREON llB ON POLYUREA FOAMSThe addition of Freon 11B in the preparation of polyurea foams caused an increase in the rise time and tack free time in the processing see Table XIII . The effect ofFreon llB on the density of the resulting polyurea foams was not so significant for the formulation containing 10 wt based on isocyanate of this blowing agent.A reduction in density of the resulting polyurea foams was observed as the content of Freon 11B increased to 20 wt in the formulation.Besides water and trichlorofluoromethane, other blowing agents such as carbon dioxide, and C1 to C2 chlorofluoroalkanes such as tetrachlorofluoroethane and various chlorofluoromethanes and ethanes can be used to replace part or all of the trichlrofluoromethane Freon 11B shown above in these various polyurea foam compositions.The amount of , total blowing agent in the composition can be up to about 20 wt in the formulation to effect reductions in the density of the foam. Beyond 20 wt of the blowing agent, blowing agents do not have significant effect or advantage in the formulations.Examples 32 Zto 34EFFECT OF FLY ASH AND ALUMINA TRIHYDRATE ON POLYUREAFOAMS MODIFIED WITH ISOPROPANOL The following polyurea foam formulations were made by the one shot procedure described above so as to contain the indicated amounts of Freon 11B, alumina trihydrate and fly ash in the respective formulations.All of the Freon 11B, alumina trihydrate and fly ash components were added via the aqueous phase before the aqueous phase was blended with the polymeric isocyanate component. Table XIV Effect of Fly Ash and Alumina Trihydrate on the Polyurea Foams ExamplesFORMULATION 32 33 34Mondur MR, g 201.2 100.65 98.65H20, g 27.0 13.50 13.50Isopropanol, g 10.0 5.0 5.0L 53234, g 4.0 2.0 2.0DC 198, g 4.0 2.0 2.0Freon 11B, g 40.0 20.0 20.0Al2O31 2H2O, g 80.0 40.0 40.0Fly ash, g 20.0 20.0 40.0Isocyanate Index 50.4 50.5 49.5 without alcohol PROCESSINGCream time, sec 35 35 35Rise time, sec 75 90 100Tack free time, sec 95 100 125PROPERTIESDensity, pcf 0.688 0.721 0.993Oxygen index 23.25 23.25 24.50Compressive strength, psi 11 1.14 0.89 0.43 0.54 0.57 0.41K factor btu in hr ft2 oF 0.52 EFFECT OF FLY ASH AND ALUMINA TRIHYDRATE IN POLYUREA FOAMS The properties of polyurea foams modified with a combination of fly ash and alumina trihydrate are listed inTable XIV. The decrease in the compressive strength was observed as the content of fly ash increased in the formulation. This result was different from that of the formulation without alumina trihydrate. This phenomenon could be explained by the fact that the addition of alumina trihydrate in the formulation also caused a decrease in the compressive strength of the resulting polyurea foams. Therefore, the decrease in the compressive strength was attributed to the combination of alumina trihydrate and fly ash rather than to fly ash alone.The compressive strength increased as the content of fly ash was at 20 wt based on isocyanate see Table X , then gradually decreased as the contents of these mixtures fly ash and alumina trihydrate were over 50 wtS 10 of fly ash and 40 of alumina trihydrate based on isocyanate . Examples 35 to 41 EFFECT OF FYROA rR 2 AND FLY ASH Ex 35 39 AND FYRO SFR 2 AND ALUMINA TRIHYDRATE Ex 40 41 ON PROPERTIES OF POLYUREA FOAMS The following polyurea foam formulations were made by the one shot procedure described above so as to contain the indicated amounts of Fyrol z FR 2 flame retardant without, and then with, the indicated amounts of fly ash or alumina trihydrate. The Fyrol FR 2, fly ash, and alumina trihydrate components were all added via the aqueous phase before the aqueous phase was blended with the polymeric isocyanate component. Table XV Effect of Fly Ash and Fyrol FR 2 on Polyurea Foams ExamplesFORMULATION 35 36 37 38 39 Nondur MR, g 51.2 50.5 50.57 51.28 48.9H20, g 6.7 6.7 6.7 6.7 6.7Isopropanol, g 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5Polycat 17, g 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 L 540, g 1.0 1.0 1.0 1,0 1.0Freon 11B, g 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0Fyrol FR 2, g 5.0 5.0 5.0 10.0 10.0Fly ash,g 10.0 20.0 10.0 20.0Isocyanate Index 51.7 51.0 51.10 51.8 without alcohols PROCESSINGCream time, sec 28 28 30 28 35Rise time, sec 50 70 85 60 87Tack free time, sec 70 85 95 75 100PROPERTIESDensity, pcf 0.443 0.521 0.635 0.516 0.612 Oxygen index 22.75 23.25 23.50 24.50 24.75Friability 12.2 23.85 49.5 11,90 32.0 Table XVI Effect of Combination of Fyrol FR 2 and Alumina trihydrate on Polyurea foams ExamplesFORMULATION 40 41Mondur MR, g 50.7 50.70H20, g 6.7 6.7Isopropanol, g 2.5 2.5Polycat 17, g 1.0 1.0 L 540, g 1.0 1.0Freon 11B, g 10.0 10.0Fyrol FR 2, g 5.0 5.0 Al2O31 2H2O, g 5.0 5.0Fly ash, g 10 20.0Isocyanate Index 51.2 51.2PROCESSINGCream time, sec 30 30Rise time, sec 65 75Tack free time, sec 75 90PROPERTIESDensity, pcf 0.572Oxygen index 24.25 24.5Friability, . 25.18 32.36 The above examples illustrate that Fyrol FR 2 flame retardant. had better fire retardant effect in the polyurea foams than did alumina trihydrate.In addition to having better fire retardance and only a slight change in the density of the resulting polyurea foams, Fyrol FR 2 in the polyurea foam formulations did not affect the rate of reaction in the processing. These advantages are illustrated by the results in Tables XV and XVI hereinabove, showing properties of polyurea foam formulations modified with the various combination of Fyrol FR 2, alumina trihydrate and fly ash. It is illustrated here that the flame resistance increased as the content of fly ash increased in the formulation. An increase in density was mainly due to the addition of fly ash in the system. The friability of the resulting foam increased as the fly ash content increased in the formulation. The flame resistance with the addition of Fyrol FR 2 and alumina trihydrate was not higher than with Fyrol FR 2 alone in the polyurea foams. Compare the oxygen indices in Tables XV and XVI hereinabove . K FACTOR OF VARIOUS MODIFIED POLYUREA FOAMS The K factors of vaious modified polyurea foams were measured by using a Dynatech Rapid K testing machine. The results are listed in Tables IX to XIV. The values from 0.42 to 0.52 of the measured K factors were higher than those expected 0.22 for CO2 blown polyurethane foams of about 2 pcf . This is due to the lower density and the open cell structure of the resulting polyurea foams compared to conventional polyurethane foams at densities of 1.5 to 3 pcf. In the foregoing examples, the materials in the following tables were used to make the polyurea foam formulations. The tables set forth the trademark or code number designation and chemical composition or function, as best as presently known, and the corporate source of supply for each ingredient. MaterialsDesignation Chemical Composition Eq. Wt. SupplierIsocyanate itondur MR Polymeric isocyanate 133 Mobay Chemical Co polyphenyl polymethylene polysocyanate Alcohol Isopropanol CH3 2CHOH 60.1 Mallinckrodt Inc.Catalysts A 51806 Tertiary amine catalyst Abbott Labs. A 54234 Tertiary Amine catalyst Abbott Labs. Polycat 17 Tertiary Amine catalyst Abbott LabsOther Additives L 540 Silicone surfactant Union Carbide DC 198 Silicone surfactant Dow Corning Alumina Al2O3 2 Great Lake trihydrate Minerals Fyrol FR 2 Tris dichloropropyl Stauffer Chemical phosphate Co. Fly ash Detroit Edison Calcium CaSO4 1 2 H2O sulfate Phos Chek Ammonium polyphosphate Monsanto MaterialsDesignation Chemical Compound Eg. Wt. SupplierIsocyanate Mondur MR Polymeric isocyanate 133 Mobay Chem. Co.Polyols Pluracol Poly oxypropylene BASF W. Corp. GP 730 derivative of glycerol Pluracol Poly oxypropylene BASF W. Corp. P 710 glycol Niax 31 28 Poly oxypropylene 2003.0 Union Carbide derivative of glycerol capped with ethylene oxide grafted with acrylonitrile Pluronic Poly oxyethylene BASF W. Corp. L 62 poly oxypropylene Diamine Jeffamine Poly oxypropyelene 1000.0 Jefferson Chem. Co. D 2000 diamineAlcohol 1 Butanol CH3CH2CH2CH2OHCatalysts Dabco T Substituted ammonium Air Products Co. carbo ylate Dabco TMR Ammonium carboxylate Air Products Co. Polycat 41 N,N ,N Tris dimethylamino Abbott Labs. propyl hexahydrotriazine T 12, DBTDL Dibutyltin dilaurate M T Co. A 51806 Tertiary amine catalyst Abbott Labs.Other additives Freon ll B Trichlorofluoromethane DuPont blowing agent Fyrol PCF Tris beta chloroethyl Stauffer Chem. Co. phosphate L 540 Silicone surfactant Union Carbide Fyrol FR 2 Tris dichlorpropyl Stauffer Chem. Co. phosphate Additional Preparations P and Examples 860 884 906 912, 1068, 1074 and 1080 In the same manner as given in the foregoing, the following additional Preparations and Examples were carried out and the information and results relating to each tabulated in various ways in TABLES IA through XIIA. TABLE I A All P Preparation 860 861 862 863 864Mondur MR, g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.00 100.0 water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Alumina Tri hydrate, g 20.0 30.0 40.0 50.0II 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12CT, sec. 10 10 10 10 10RT, sec. 40 40 40 40 40TFT, sec. 50 50 50 50 50Density, lb ft3 0.39 0.58 0.62 0.73 foam shrunkFriability, 2 2 2 2 foam shrunkOxygen Index 20.2 21.5 22.0 22.5 foam shrunk TABLE II AExample 865 866 867 868 869Mondur MR, g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Alumina Trihydrate 20.0 30.0 40.0 50.0Ethanol, g 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0II 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12CT, sec. 10 10 10 10 10RT, sec. 40 40 40 40 40 TFT, sec. 50 50 50 50 50Density, lb ft3 0.35 0.44 0.49 0.53 0.64Friability, 25.5 11.5 18.4 40.4 100Oxygen Index 19.5 20.5 22.0 22.5 24.0 TABLE III AExample 870 871 872 873 874Mondur MR,g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Alumina Trihydrate 20.0 30.0 40.0 50.0 n propanol, g 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.CII 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12CT, sec. 10 10 10 10 10RT, sec. 40 40 40 40 40TFT, sec. 50 50 50 50 50Density lb ft3 0.38 0.45 0.50 0.57 0,64Friability, 7.3 23.0 28.4 31.5 36.9Oxygen Index 19.5 21.0 22.0 22.5 23.0 TABLE IV ABeispiel 875 876 877 878 879Mondur MR, g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Alimina Trihydrate, g 20.0 30.0 40.0 50.0 n Butanol, g 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0II 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12CT, sec. 10 10 10 10 10RT, sec. 40 40 40 40TFT, sec. 50 50 50 50 50Density lb t3 0.36 o.46 0.50 0.57 0.68Friability, 5.2 15.0 17.4 16.85Oxygen Index 19.0 20.5 21.5 22.5 23.5 TABLE V AExample 880 881 882 883 884Mondur MR, g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Alumina Trihydrate, g 20.0 30.0 40.0 50.0Iso propanol, g 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0II 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12CT, sec. 10 10 10 10 10RT, sec. 40 40 40 40 40TFT, sec. 50 50 50 50 50Density, lb ft3 0.39 0.49 0.58 0.61 0.70Friability, 2.0 7.6 10.3 6.51 6.41Oxygen Index 19.5 20.5 21.0 22.0 23.0 TABLE VI AExample 865 870 875 880 860 P Mondur MR, g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Alumina Trihydrate, g Ethanol, g 5.0 n propanol, g 5.0 n Butanol, g 5.0 iso propanol, g 5.0II 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12CT, sec. 10 10 10 10 10RT, sec. 40 40 40 40 40TFT, sec. 50 50 50 50 50Density, lb ft.3 0.35 0.38 0.36 0.39 0.43 Friability, 25.5 7.3 5.2 2.0 2.0Oxygen Index 19.5 19.5 19.0 19.5 20.0 TABLE VII AExample 866 871 876 881 861 P Mondur MR, g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Alumina Trihydrate 20.0 20.0 20.0 20.0 20.0Ethanol, g 5.0 n propanol, g 5.0 n Butanol, g 5.0 Iso propanol, g 5.0 II 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12CT, sec. 10 10 10 10 10RT, sec. 40 40 40 40 40TFT, sed. 50 50 50 50 50Density, lb ft 0.44 0.45 0.46 0.49 0.58Friability, 11.5 23.0 15.0 7.0 2.0Oxygen Index 20.5 21.0 20.5 20.5 21.5 TABLE VIII AExample 867 872 877 882 862 P Mondur MR, g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Alumina Trihydrate, g 30.0 30.0 30.0 30.0 30.0Ethanol, g 5.0 n propanol, g 5.0 n Butanol, g 5.0 o iso propanol, g 5.0 II 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12CT, sec. 10 10 10 10 10RT, sec. 40 Mo Mo 40 40 TFT, sec. 50 50 50 50 50Density, lb ft3 0.49 0.50 0.50 0.58 0.62Friability, 18.4 28.4 17.4 10.3Oxygen Index 22.0 22.0 21.5 21.0 22.0 TABLE IX AExample 868 873 878 883 863 P Mondur MR, g g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Alumina Trihydrate, g 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0Ethanol, g 5.0 n propanol, g 5.0 n Butanol, g 5.0 iso propanol, g 5.0 II 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12CT, sec. 10 10 10 10 10RT, sec. 40 40 40 40 40TFT, sec. 50 50 50 50 50Density, lb ft3 0.53 0.58 0.57 0.61 0.74Friability, 40.4 31.5 16.85 6.51 2.0Oxygen Index 22.5 22.5 22.5 22.0 22.5 TABLE X AExample 869 874 879 884 864 P Mondur MR, g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Alumina Trihydrate, g 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0Ethanol, g 5.0 n propanol, g 5.0 n Butanol, g 5.0 iso propanol, g 5.0 II 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12 50.12CT, sec. 10 10 10 10 10RT, sec. 40 40 40 40 40TFT, sec. 50 50 50 50 50Density, lb ft3 o.64 0.63 0.68 0.70 foam shrunkFriability, jo 100.0 36.9 44.4 6.41 foam shrunkOxygen Index 24.0 23.0 23.5 23.0 foam shrunk TABLE XIXExample. num 906 num 907 num 908 num 909 num 910 num 911 num 912Modur MR, g 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Water, g 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0FR 2, g 0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 25.0 30.0 iso propanol, g 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0Cream Time, sec. 10 10 10 10 10 10 10Rise Time, sec. 40 40 35 40 40 40 40Tack Free Time, sec. 60 70 60 60 60 70 70Oxygen Index 19.50 21.00 22.00 23.00 23.50 24.00 24.50Friability, 2 11 2 2 2 2 2Density, lb ft 0.42 0.43 0.41 0.42 0.43 0.42 0.43Density, kg m 6.76 6.97 6.62 6.72 6.94 6.65 6.91 TABLE XIIA Example num 1068 num 1074 num 1080Water, g 16.92 16.92 16.92 L 540, g 2.0 2.0 2.0Polycat 17, g 2.0 2.0 2.0Mondur MR, g 100.0 100.0 100.0 Isopropyl Alcohol, g 5.0 10.0 15.0Cream Time, sec. 18 20 22Rise Time, sec. 45 45 55Tack Free Time, sec. 50 50 60Isocyanate Index 40 . 40 40 without Isopropyl Alcohol Isocyanate Index 38.3 36.7 35.3 with Iso ropy Alcohol Density, lbs ftj 0.44 0.41 0.39Oxygen Index 19.5 19.5 19.5 In conclusion, from the foregoing, it is apparent that the present invention provides a novel polyurea foam, involving incorporation thereinto of a densitylowering and or compressive strength enhancing amount of a lower alkanol or alkanediol, having the foregoing enumerated characteristics and advantages. It is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the exact details of operation, or to the exact compositions, methods, procedures, or embodiments shown and described, as obvious modifications and equivalents will be apparent to one skilled in the art, and the invention is therefore to be limited only by the full scope of the appended claims.