# Yellow emitting phosphors, process for producing same and a fluorescent lamp containing same.

## Abstract
Yellow emitting fluorescent lamp phosphors comprise cerium and manganese activated calcium strontium fluoroapatite compositions represented by the approximate formula Ca A two step firing process for producing the disclosed phosphors is described and a fluorescent lamp 10 em ploying the disclosed phosphors 38 comprises an elon gated sealed glass envelope 12 of circular cross section. It has the usual electrodes 14 and 16 at each end supported by lead in wires 18, 20 and 22, 24, respectively which extend through glass presses 26, 28 in mount stems 30, 32 to the contacts in bases 34, 36 affixed to the ends of the lamp 10 .

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A luminescent composition comprising cerium and manganese activated calcium strontium fluoroapatite having the approximate formula Ca1tSrt vCewMnx PO4 yFz wherein t is from 0 to 1 v is from about 4.12 to about 4.30 w is about 0.295 x is from about 0.147 to about 0.295 y is about 3.0 z is from about 1.72 to about 2.21. 2. A fluorescent lamp comprising a light transmitting envelope having electrodes, an inert ionizable gas and a charge of mercury therein and a coating of phosphor on the inside surface of said envelope, said phosphor comprising cerium and manganese activated calcium strontium fluoroapatite composition having the approximate formula Cal tSrt vCewMnx P PO4 yF wherein t is from 0 to 1 v is from about 4.12 to about 4.30 w is about 0.295 x is from about 0.147 to about 0.295 y is about 3.00 z is from about 1.72 to about 2.21. 3. A process for producing cerium and manganese activated calcium strontium fluoroapatite luminescent material composition according to claim 1 comprising firing said composition for about 1 to about 1.5 hours at about 9000C to about 10500C in about 10Q minute flow of N2 and refiring said matbrla l composition for about 1 hour at about 8500C to about 10250C in l0Q minute flow of N2. 4. A process for producing cerium and manganese activated calcium strontium fluoroapatite luminescent material composition according to claim 1 comprising firing said composition for about 1 to about 1.5 hours at about 9500C to about 980 C in about 10Q minute flow of N2 containing 5 H2 and refiring said material composition for about 1 hour at about 8500C to about 10250C in about 10Q minute flow of N2.

## Description
YELLOW EMITTING PHOSPHORS, PROCESS FOR PRODUCING SAME AND A FLUORESCENT LAMP CONTAINING SAMEField of the Invention This invention relates to alkaline earth fluorophosphate luminescent materials. More particularly, it relates to calcium strontium fluoroapatite phosphors activated with cerium and manganese and to fluorescent lamps incorporating these phosphor materials.Background of the invention British Patent No. 792,598 to Ranby and correspondingJ. Electrochemical Soc., Vol. 104, No. 10 October 1957 pp. 612 615, article entitled Cerium Activated Halophosphate Phosphors by S. T. Henderson and P. W. Ranby disclose a luminescent material comprising a halophosphate of calcium and or strontium, having an apatite structure activated with cerium or with cerium and manganese, and the phosphor materials of optimum brightness being formulated as Sr4 57Ce0 2Mn0 25 204 3,05 5 2 It has been found that the optimum brightness is not at the Henderson and Ranby formulation. Summary of the Invention In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, there is provided an improved luminescent composition comprising a cerium and manganese activated calcium strontium fluoroapatite composition having the approximate formula Ca1tSrt vCewMnx PO4 yFz wherein t is from 0 to 1 v is from about 4.12 to about 4.30 w is about 0.295 x is from about 0.147 to about 0.295 y is about 3.00 z is from about 1.72 to about 2.21. In another aspect of the invention, a fluorescent lamp comprising a light transmitting envelope has electrodes, an inert ionizable gas and a charge of mercury therein and a coating of phosphor on the inside surface of the envelope. The phosphor comprises a cerium and manganese activated calcium strontium fluoroapatite composition having the approximate formula Ca1Srt vCewMnx P04 yFZ wherein t is from 0 to 1 v is from about 4.12 to about 4.30 w is about 0.295 x is from about 0.147 to about 0.295 y is about 3.00 z is from about 1.72 to about 2.21. In still another aspect of the invention, a process for producing cerium and manganese activated calciumstrontium fluoroapatite luminescent material composition comprises firing the composition for about 1 to about 1.5 hours at about 9000C to about 10500C in about 10Q minute flow of N2, then refiring the material composition for about 1 hour at about 8500C to about 10250C in 108 minute flow of N2. In a further aspect of this invention, a process for producing cerium and manganese activated calciumstrontium fluoroapatite luminescent material composition comprises firing the material composition for about 1 to about 1.5 hours at about 9500C to about 9800C in about 10Q minute flow of N2 containing 5 H2 and then refiring the material composition for about I hour at about 8500C to about 10250C in about 10Q minute flow of N2.Brief Description of the Drawings In the drawings FIG. 1 is a view of a fluorescent lamp, partially in section, diagrammatically illustrating an embodiment of the invention and FIG. 2 shows the emission spectrum for phosphor compositions in accordance with one aspect of the present invention and a type 4381 standard emission spectrum. For a better understanding of the present invention, together with other and further objects, advantages and capabilities thereof, reference is made to the following disclosure and appended claims in connection with the above described drawings. Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment Referring now to the drawings with greater particularity, there is shown in FIG. 1 a fluorescent lamp 10.Lamp 10 comprises an elongated sealed glass envelope 12 of circular cross section. It has the usual electrodes 14 and 16 at each end supported by lead in wires 18, 20 and 22, 24, respectively, which extend through glass presses 26, 28 in mount stems 30, 32 to the contacts in bases 34, 36 affixed to the ends of the lamp 10. Envelope 12 is filled with an inert gas such as argon or a mixture of argon and neon at a low pressure, for example, two torr, and a small quantity of mercury, at least enough to provide a low vapor pressure of about six microns during operation. The interior of envelope 12 is coated with a layer of phosphor 38 of the present invention. A phosphor coating suspension was prepared by dispersing the phosphor particles in a water base system employing polyethylene oxide as the binder with water as the solvent. The phosphor suspension was applied in the usual manner of causing the suspension to flow down the inner surface of envelope 12 and allowing the water to evaporate, leaving the binder and phosphor particles adhered to the envelope 12 wall. The phosphor coated envelope 12 was then heated in a lehr oven to volatilize the organic components, the phosphor layer 38 remaining on the envelope 12 wall. Envelope 12 is processed into a fluorescent lamp by conventional lamp manufacturing techniques. There is particular interest, for lamp applications, 2 in a sensitizer of the yellow emission from Mn that, in turn, does not itself emit in the visible region of 3 the spectrum. Ce would be such a Mn sensitizer in the apatite structure. Spectral and compositional properties of Ce Mn coactivated apatite phophors have been reported in the above mentioned article by S. T.Henderson and P. W. Ranby. The crucial question concerning practical applications of such materials is whether the Mn emission intensity for excitation at 254 nm is comparable to that of the yellow emitter presently used in high efficacy lamps, namely, the commercial Sylvania type 4381 phosphor, an antimony manganese calcium fluoroapatite, having a typical emission spectra as shown in FIG. 2. In this connection, it has been found that the intensity of the Mn emission in the Ce Mn coactivated fluoroapatites is a very sensitive function not only of formulation, but also of firing treatment. The most intense Mn emission for excitation at 254 nm from a Sr fluoroapatite phosphor coactivated with Ce and Mn is 89 to 90 of the corresponding Mn emission intensity of the commercial type 4381.The Sr fluoroapatite phosphor coactivated with Ce and Mn was obtained from a material formulated as Sr4.32Ce.3Mn.25 PO4 3.05F1.95 namely, with a strong excess of fluoride. The firing treatment was as follows 1 hour at 9500C in a 10Q minute flow of nitrogen gas containing 5 hydrogen.After the first firing, the material was ground, sieved through a 100 mesh screen, and refired at 10250C for 1 hour in an atmosphere of flowing nitrogen lOQ minute . The starting reaction components were SrHPO4 8.4 grams SrCO3 1.65 grams SrF2 0.99 gram CeF3 0.887 gram MnCO3 0.43 gram The reaction components were weighed and blended in a Spex Mixer Mill Model 8000. The blend was then loaded in shallow alumina boats r2.5 x 1.5 x 5 8 provided with loose quartz covers, and lots of four to six boats were introduced into the hot zone of a quartz tube inserted in a tubular furnace. The atmosphere in the reaction zone was purged of oxygen by a preliminary pump down, and then continuously swept at 10Q minute flow of nitrogen gas, or nitrogen gas containing 5 hydrogen. After the firing treatment at the desired temperature, the quartz tube containing the boats was allowed to cool to 4500C, still under constant gasflow. The quartz tube was then removed and the samples extracted. The materials from this first firing were then ground, sieved generally through a 100 mesh screen and then refired. The second firing was carried out in inert or mildly reducing atmosphere, and increased the emission efficiency of the phosphors by a few percent. An increase in Mn content over 0.15 formula units produced marked sintering after the first firing at temperatures ranging from 9500C to l0500C. The use of a nitrogen hydrogen mixture 5 hydrogen as firing atmosphere reduced the tendency to sintering and eliminated the pale green body color frequently observed in the nitrogen fired phosphors. The second firing was carried out in nitrogen atmosphere at temperatures ranging from 8500C to 10250C, Third firing of the phosphor at 8500C in wet forming gas 95 nitrogen 5 hydrogen resulted in a slight discoloration of the powder and in a 7 brightness loss. The highest brightness was observed in a phosphor formulated as Srd.32Ce0. Mn 25 P04 3.05F1.95 Fluorescent lamp brightness of fluorescent lamps containing the above phosphor was 2350 lumens per 40 watts. A gradient in emission brightness was observed in the doubly fired material from this run, the measured peak intensity of Mn ranging from 86.1 to 89.8 of the corresponding quantity for a standard type 4381. X ray diffraction measurements on the materials obtained from a variety of runs showed a major phase with hexagonal apatite lattice. A possible minor phase of CePO4 was suggested by the diffraction data. Materials formulated as Sr4 32Ce0 3Mn0. 25 PO4 1.95 gave on analysis by neutron activation, by atomic absorption and by gravimetry the following elemental composition in percent weight Sr Ce Mn P O F 49.50 6.10 1.80 12.80 29.40 4.3 corresponding to the molar ratio 4.175 to 0.32 to 0.24 to 3.39 to 1.67 as shown in the following formula 4.175 e0.32Mno.24 2 3 39 3F1 67 In other words, the fluorine content retained was well in excess of the stoichiometric amount for a conventional SrFAP. The Ca analogs of the Ce Mn fluoroapatites require a stronger halide excess and higher firing temperatures.The material with most intense Mn emission, formulated as Ca4.17Ce.3Mn.25 PO4 3F3.2 , was fired 1 hour at 10500C in 10Q minute flow of nitrogen gas containing 5 hydrogen, and refired 1 hour at 9500C in the same type of atmosphere. The intensity of the Mn emission band was 77 of the type 4381 standard. The corresponding formulation was CaHPO4 7.74 grams CaCO3 1.75 grams CeF3 0.88 gram MnCO3 0.43 gram 4 2 0.98 gram FIG. 2 shows a comparison of the emission spectra of the type 4381 standard and of the analogous Ce Mn activated Sr fluoroapatite. Excitation in all cases was at 254 nm. While there has been shown and described what is at present considered the preferred embodiment of the invention, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.