# Polyolefin extrusion process and apparatus.

## Abstract
A process and apparatus are disclosed for the melting and mixing of polyolefin materials in an extruder 10 having a conventional helical mixing screw section 20 , a fluted mixer head section 22 and an unflighted screw section 24 positioned thereon, wherein said fluted mixer head section 22 is employed as the final downstream screw section of said extruder screw and said unflighted screw section 24 upstream of said fluted mixer head section 22 .

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A process for the melting and mixing of polyolefins in an extruder employing a screw having a conventional helical melting and mixing zone, a fluted mixer head zone and an unflighted screw zone, comprising passing said polyolefin successively through said conventional helical mixing zone, through said unflighted screw zone, and then through said fluted mixing zone which comprises the final mixing zone. 2. The process in accordance with claim 1, wherein said polyolefin is linear polyethylene. 3. The process in accordance with one or more of the claims 1 2, wherein said unflighted screw zone is of substantially constant diameter. 4. The process for the melting and mixing in accordance with one or more of the claims 1 3, wherein polyethylene has low density and a melt index of approxi mately 1.0 and said unflighted screw zone has a depth to diameter ratio of between about 0.08 and 0.24. 5. The process in accordance with one or more of the claims 1 4, wherein said extruder is rotated at from 25 to 200 RPM and is maintained at an internal head pressure between about 1,500 and 10,000 psi. 6. In extruder screws for the melting and mixing of polyolefins materials having a conventional helical mixing screw section, a fluted mixer bead section and an unflighted screw section positioned thereon, the improvement which comprises employing said fluted mixer head section as the final downstream screw section of said extruder screw and said unflighted screw section upstream of said flulted mixer head section. 7. The extruder screw in accordance with claim 6, wherein said unflighted screw section is positioned immediately upstream af said fluted mixer head section.

## Description
POLYOLEFIN EXTRUSION PROCESS AND APPARATUS SPECIFICATION The present invention relates to process and apparatus for the melting and mixing of polyolefin materials, preferably polyethylene, in an extruder. More particularly, the process and apparatus relates to such melting and mixing in an extruder employing a screw having a selected arrangement of extruder screw processing sections positioned thereon. Prior extruders for the melting and mixing of low density linear polyolefins have often employed helical melting and mixing sections in combination wAth fluted mixer head sections. One of the first of such extruders is discussed in U.S.Patent No. 3,486,192 to G. LeRoy 1969 which teaches the employment of such a mixer head section positioned between conventional helically flighted melting and mixing sections positioned on the extruder screw. Another such extruder is taught inU.S. Patent No. 3,730,492 to 8.B. Paddock 1973 .That extruder employs a fluted mixer head sect ion which is positioned immediately upstream of the extruder exit die. It has long been desired to reduce the processing and exit temperatures of the polyolefin materials being passed from an extruder employing screws of the type employed in the Haddock arrangement of mixing sections. It has also been desired to provide a polyolefin extruder mixing screw which permits operation at torques capable of being delivered to such an extruder for the same resins as in the prior art. Accordingly, the aims and objectives of the present invention are to provide extruder process and apparatus enabling the attainment of lower processing temperatures and operation at available delivered tongue values. Other aims and objectives will be apparent from the following claims and appended drawings. In the appended drawings FIG. 1 is a schematic cross sectional view of a portion of the extruder housing showing in position, in broken side view, an extruder screw embodying the apparatus aspect of the present invention FIG. 2 is an enlarged partial side elevation view of the unflighted screw section of the screw of FIG. 1 of the drawing and FIG. 3 is a graphical representation of the temperature vs. time relationship, at various points in the space, between the unflighted section wall of a screw embodying the invention and the barrel wall of the extruder. In accordance with the present invention, a melting and mixing process for low density polyolefins is provided in an extruder, employing a screw having a conventional helical mixing zone, fluted mixer head zone and unflighted screw zone, comprising passing said polyolefin successively through said conventional helical mixing zone, said unflighted screw zone and then through said fluted mixing zone, which comprises the final mixing zone. As employed herein, the term wunflightedW screw section means the screw section presents a relatively smooth surface, preferably of constant diameter, without any slighted elements such as helical screw threads, mixing flutes or troughs, or the like, which are provided on the conventional mixing screw section and fluted mixing section which bound the unflighted screw on the upstream and downstream ends, respectively. In accordance with the apparatus aspect of the invention, an extruder screw is provided for the melting and mixing of polyolefin materials, having a conventional helical mixing screw section, a fluted mixer head section and an unflighted screw section positioned thereon, comprising said fluted mixer head section positioned as the final downstream screw section of said extruder screw and said unflighted screw section positioned upstream of said fluted mixer head section. It has been found that the diameter of the extruder screw at the unflighted section need not be of any critical diameter or dimension relative to the internal diameter of the inner barrel of the extruder. It is desired that the diameter of the unflighted screw section be specified such that the torque required by the arrangement of extruder screw processing sections be less than that available delivered torque values and also sufficiently small to provide a substantially cylindrical toroidally shaped passageway between the unflighted screw section and the internal walls of the extruder barrel.The thickness of this cylindrical toroidally shaped section should be sufficient to provide the high shear mixing action in the unflighted screw section which will impart to the material being melted and mixed in the extruder a primarily longitudinal flow path, coupled with a circumferential flow path due to the rotation of the unflighted section which produces a two dimensional shearing action, thereby mixing the thermally non homogeneous fluid as indicated in FIG. 3 by the temperature vs. time traces at the upstream and downstream thermocouple locations there indicated. Referring specifically to the embodiment of apparatus of the invention shown in FIGS 1 and 2 of the drawings, an extruder 10 is provided having a screw 12 positioned in the barrel thereof defined by walls 14. An extruder die 16 with exit ports 18 is provided at the downstream end of extruder 10.Extuder screw 12 had three screw sections conventional helical melting and mixing section 20 at the upstream end thereof, fluted mixing head section 22 at the downstream end thereof and an intermediate unflighted screw section 24 therebetween. Helical mixing section 20 has a helical mixing screw thread 26 supported to its downstream end, by the extruder base or root surface 28 thereof. Flighted mixer head section 22 has a plurality of longitudinal inlet troughs 30 and outlet troughs 32 separated by intervening flutes 34. The downstream end of flighted mixing section 22 has a conical shape 36. The intermediate unflighted screw section 24 shown more specifically in FIG. 2 has a central substantially constant diameter surface portion 25 bounded on opposite ends by tapered frusto conical elements 38 which are, in turn, bounded by locking elements 40 which secure the unflighted screw section to the upstream conventional helical mixing section 20 and the downstream flighted mixing head section 22. The frusto conical elements are employed for streamlining purposes only so as to prevent the formation of any stagnant regions in which polymer may degrade. The annualar or cylindrically toroidal shaped space 42 discussed hereinabove is the space formed between the outer walls 24 of the unflighted screw section 24 and the inner walls 14 of the extruder barrel. A series of comparative experiments were carried out to determine the amount of melting and mixing occurring in the annular space between the unflighted mixing section and extruder barrel walls. The degree of such melting and mixing is attained from the temperature vs. time delivery taken from the position on the unflighted screw section, as represented in FIG. 3 of the drawings.Such experiments were carried out while employing an unf lighted screw section which provided a 0.2 inch thick annular spacing between the unflighted screw section and the internal barrel walls of a 2 1 2 inch extruder. The positions A, B, C, D and E represent, respectively, 1 2, 1 1 2, 2 1 2, 3 1 2, 4 1 2 turns one turn 0.036 from the wall of the unflighted screw section. As is noted, the rotation speed was 80 PM and the head pressure was 4000 psi, with a broad operability range between about 25 200RPM and a 1,500 10,000 psi bead pressure range. The temperature profile exhibited in the upper curve snows that recorded on a thermocouple position near tne mixing head the profile of the lower curve shows that recorded on a ehermocouple position near the conventional helical flighted section. It is obvious for an expert that all typical ranges of parameters depend on the specific resin being process, the diameter of the screw, the total barrel length and speed of rotation. Thus, typically a screw having a mixing section 20 and a design of selected pitch and root depth to match the resin being processed would be employed. According to special embodiments of this invention the length to diameter ratio would be between 14 and 24 and preferably 18 for LLDPE. The tapered sections 38 are also not critical and are merely for conveni nce usually designated in one half length to diamete ratio, d being of course the outer diameter of the screw.It is to be noted that the preferred depth to barrel diameter ratio of the unflighted screw section is abou 0.08 to 0.24. This would vary depending upon the coXIposition and properties of the resin being processed. The l to d ratio of this unflighted section 24 is preferably between about 1 and 8, with 6 being most preferred for LLDPE. According special embodiments the l to d ratio for the mixer head is between about 1 and 4, with 2 being tte most preferred ration for LLDPE. The number of pairs of flutes 30 and 32 of the mixer head depend basically upon the diameter of the crew, e.g. a 6 inch screw diameter would have between about 2 6 pairs of flutes, depending upon the resin being processed, the diameter of the screw, the total barrel length and the speed o ratation of the screw. Examples of data, as to extruder exit temperatures and extruder torque at various screw feeds and pressures, are set forth in the followingTable for two different annular thicknesses in the unflighted screw section with extruder screw arrangements of both prior art arrangement after of sections as against the data obtained using the arrangement of sections in accordance with the present invention before . TABLEEXIT TEMPERATURES C F Comparison of unflighted section placed before and after the mixing bead.Speed Pressure 0.6 Annular Thickness 0.2 Annular Thickness RPM Psi Before After Before After 40 2000 179 354.2 186 366.8 196 384.8 210 410.0 40 4000 193 379.4 196 384.8 204 399.2 223 433.4 80 2000 193 379.4 195 383.0 199 390.2 228 442.4 80 4000 208 406.4 213 415.4 232 449.6 238 449.6 120 2000 199 390.2 201 393.8 221 429.9 247 476.6 120 4000 215 419.0 215 419.0 242 467.6 260 500.0 TORQUE Kw RPM HP RPM Comparison of unflighted section placed before and after the mixing head. 40 2000 .149 .200 .139 .186 .161 .216 .151 .202 40 4000 .153 .205 .142 .190 .167 .224 .154 .207 80 2000 .180 .242 .166 .223 .195 .262 .183 .245 80 4000 .184 .247 .170 .228 .198 .265 .187 .251 120 2000 .198 .265 .183 .245 .212 .284 .204 .274 120 4000 .202 .271 .186 .250 .216 .290 .206 .276 It is to be noted that, in the above experiments, the LLDPE polyethylene resin employed was a linear, low density, low pressure resin having a density of O.91S gm cc, a 1.0 melt index and sold commercially by Union Carbide Corporation under the designation GRSN 7047. Accordingly, it is to be noted, from a study of the data set forth in the Table, that the invention, employing an unf lighted section between the upstream conventional helical screw section of the downstream fluted mixer head section, permits operation at lower processing exit temperatures.Inspection of the resultant product indicates a better mixing than attained by the mixing screws of the prior art. It has also been found that radial temperature gradients obtained in mixing with the conventional or prior art arrangements of extruder screw section will be virtually eliminated by the employement of the extruder screw section of the present invention.