# An electronic switch and method of operating it.

## Abstract
An electronic switch comprises a p channel vertical metal oxidesilicon VMOS power device 32 having a substantially linear input voltage output current relation ship which is used to switch the supply to the tail brake lamp 33 of a vehicle. Three different inputs In3, In2 and In1 to the gate G of the device are provided. Due to resistor means 34 these inputs have resistances appro priate to three different lamp current levels I₃, I₂, I₁, resp. I₄ in the lamp respectively corresponding to just insuffi cent to illuminate, illumination at a first light level for a tail lamp function and illumination at a second light level for a stop lamp function. The lamp is normally off with current therein at the first current level I₃ . This reduces time delay to illumination and current surge on illumination. After switching to current level I₁ the filament temperature of the bulb 33 rises and becomes more resistive. Hence the lamp current changes from value I₁ to value I₄. A diode across the lamp filament reduces back emfs generated on reducing the current.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A circuit comprising a solid state power switch and a load, the solid state power switch having a smoothly varying input voltage output current relationship characterised by impedance means connected to the input of the power switch for selectively varying the input voltage in order to vary the output current. 2. A circuit comprising a solid state power switch and an inductive load, the solid state power switch having a smoothly varying input voltage output current relationship characterised in that two impedances respectively having time constants to limit the rate of rise of the input voltage and to limit the rate of fall of the input voltage to the switch are connected to the input to the switch whereby to control the rate of rise and rate of fall of the output current to limit the magnitude of back emfs produced by changing current in the inductive load. 3. A circuit as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the solid state power switch is a vertical metal oxidesilicon VMOS power device. 4. A circuit as claimed in Claim 3, characterised in that the VMOS device is p channel. 5. A circuitaclaime4 in any preceding claim, character ised in that the input voltage output current relationship is substantially linear. 6. A circuit as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the load is a filament of a bulb. 7. A circuit as claimed in Claim 6, characterised in that the bulb is the tail brake lamp of a vehicle. 8. A vehicle characterised by a circuit as claimed in any preceding claim. 9. A method of operating a filament lamp in which the lamp is supplied with a current just below a threshold value necessary to cause emission of light whereby, when the lamp is supplied with a current sufficient to cause emission of light, the current surge which would otherwise be produced on switching on the lamp is reduced.

## Description
AN ELECTRONIC SWITCH AND METHOD OF OPERATING IT This invention relates to the switching of elec trical loads in a vehicle. Hitherto electrical loads have been switched by mechanical means either electrically or manually operated, however, with the advent of electronic control of switching functions it is appropriate that electronic means using solid state devices be used. There are three main problems associated with the switching of loads.Firstly supplying power to an incandescent lamp such as a tungsten filament bulb causes problems because of the very low electrical resistance of the filament when at ambient temperature, because a very high surge current flows when connection is made to a voltage source. Secondly large back emfs may be produced when breaking the current in inductive circuits,,and the back emf is a source of interference to electronics installed in the vehicle. Thirdly there is the problem of providing protection of the switch and circuitry against possible short circuit loads hitherto this has been achieved by the use of fuses. In the particular case of vehicle lamps, in the non illuminating or off state, the lamp filament bulbs, and more particularly the filaments themselves are at ambient temperature. Consequently, due to the resistance temperature characteristic of the material of the filament on connection to the power supply, the initial resistance presented by the filament is very low resulting in a high surge of current. The time taken for the filament to reach its full operating temperature depends on the value of the surge current which may be limited by the output resistance of the supply. Typically for a 12V, 22W filament bulb theresistance at ambient temperature is O.GLand a surge current of 20A would be expected from a 12V supply.The output resistance resulting from wires, connections and contacts can typically be 2Jt or thereabouts, and this results in a time delay in excess of 30 ms before full illumination is achieved due to the thermal capacity of the filament. The surge current resulting from the low ambient resistance of the filament in a given bulb will cause a large drop in voltage which is a very serious source of electrical noise and would be detrimental to the operation of electronics sharing a power supply with the bulb. Where two levels of illumination are required for different functions such as rear lights and stop lights, it is common practice to house two separately fed filaments, one rated at 6W and the other at 22W in one bulb. According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided, a circuit comprising a solid state power switch and a load, the solid state power switch having a smoothly varying input voltage output current relationship characterised by impedance means connected to the input of the power switch for selectively varying the input voltage in order to vary the output current. According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a circuit comprising a solid state power switch and an inductive load, the solid state power switch having a smoothly varying input voltage output current relationship characterised in that two impedances respectively having time constants to limit the rate of rise of the input voltage and to limit the rate of fall of the input voltage to the switch are connected to the input to the switch whereby to control the rate of rise and rate of fall of the output current to limit the magnitude of back emfs produced by changing current in the inductive load. According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of operating a filament lamp in which the lamp is supplied with a current just below a threshold value necessary to cause emission of light whereby, when the lamp is supplied with a current sufficient to cause emission of light, the current surge which would otherwise be produced on switching on the lamp is reduced. A preferred embodiment of the invention may comprise any one or more of the following advantageous features a The solid state power switch is a vertical metal oxide silicon VMOS power device. b The VMOS device of a is p channel. c The input voltage output current relationship is substantially linear. d The load is a filament of a bulb. e The bulb is the tail lamp bulb of a vehicle. The invention also comprises a vehicle having a load such as a lamp, for example, controlled by a switching circuit as defined above. In order that the invention may be more clearly understood, two embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 shows a circuit comprising a p channel vert ical metal oxide semiconductor, Figure 2 shows the operating characteristic of a vertical metal oxide semiconductor of the type forming part of the circuit of Figure 1, Figure 3 shows a circuit diagram of a power supply circuit for a rear stop lamp for a vehicle, and Figure 4 shows the input voltage drain current relationship for a power switch forming part of the circuit of Figure 3. Referring to Figure 1, a load 1 is fed from a supply through terminals 3 arid 7. This load is switched on and off by means of a switch 4 comprising a p channel vertical metal oxide semicorl luctor device which has an operating characteristic as shown in Figure 2. Such devices are complementary versions of n chdnnel VMOS devices produced, for example, by Siliconex Incorporated and described in their VMOS Power Fets Design Catalog. The switch 4 is a current generator having a gate source threshold turn on voltage of VT and a subsequent substantially linear relationship between the gate source voltage VGS, plotted on Figure 2 as abscissa and the drain curr ent 1D plotted on Figure 2 as ordinate . The gate electrode G of the switch 4 is connected through a parallel con nection of a resistor R2 and diode D1 in series with a fur ther resistor R1 to the terminal 2, the source electrodeS is connected to the positive rail having a voltage VR and the drain electrode D is connected to earth via a diode D2 which is connected in parallel with the load.A capacitor C is connected between the gate of the VMOS device and ground. The current through the load 1 is determined by VGs according to the characteristic in Figure 2, unless the device is saturated in which case the current in the load is determined by V VDS SAT RL where VDS SAT is the saturation voltage between source S and drain D. The rate of rise of the output current is determined by the time constant R1C as the input resistance of the V.M.O.S. device 4 is almost infinite, whilst the rate of fall of the current is determined by the time constant R2 R1 C because diode D1 is reverse biassed during turn off when the input voltage rises. The diode D2 connected across the load is to minimise further the back emf arising from reducing the current in the inductive loads. If the input voltage across terminals 2 and 3 rises, so that VGs lies within the threshold voltage, VT of the top rail voltage Vr, then no current flows and the switch 4 is in the off state. The above described arrangement provides a solid state switch which is capable of supplying current to incandescent filament bulbs, which is capable of turning off inductive loads without ecessive back emfs being generated, and which will provide protection against the advent of a short cir cuit load. Figure 3 shows a circuit specifically for a vehicle tail lamp. The circuit basically comprises input terminal means 31, switch means 32, a filament bulb 33 and resistor means 34. The input terminal means 31 consists of three separate inputs Inl, In2,In3 any of which may be activated by grounding the appropriate terminal. When not activated, a given input is at l2V. The switch means 32 consists of a p channel vertical metal oxide silicon VMOS power device having a characteristic as shown in Figure 4.This characteristic is the same as that shown in Figure 2, but specific values relating to this particular embodiment have been shown on it. The device is complementary to the n channel VMOS devices presently manufactured by SiliconexLtd. As shown in Figure 4 and also in Figure 2 electrical characteristics of the power switch are such that the output current is dependent upon the input voltage in an approximately linear manner, such that the current in the filament of the bulb 33 is determined either by the magnitude of the input voltage or by the resistance of the filament, whichever produces the least current. The drain current from the switch 32 is fed via the filament bulb 33 to ground.The input voltage V. is defined as the gate vol in tage relative to the source voltage, and is determined by the resistor means 34 and the voltages present at the input means 31. The resistor means 34 comprises three resistors 3R1, 3R2 and 3R3. In Figure 3 gate, source and drain electrodes of the switch 32 are respectively referencedG, S and D as in Figure 1. When the input In3 is activated by grounding that particular input the resistors 3R1 and 3R3 of the resistor 34 determine a value of the input voltage Vin, of Viz3, and a corresponding current I3 in the filament is produced as shown in Figure 4. I3 is the maximum threshold current above which the filament of the bulb 33 begins to emit light. When input In2 is activated, the resistors 3R1 and 3R2 of the resistor means 34 determine an input voltage Vin2 which results in a current I2, producing a low level of illumination appropriate to a rear side light seeFigure 4. When input Inl is activated, the full 12V appears at the input Vinyl, which can generate a surge current 11. However, as the filament temperature rises and becomes more resistive the switch 32 saturates and the current settles to a value I4wh,ich is determined by the resistance of the filament see Figure 4. 14 is appropriate to the maximum illumination from the filament and serves typically as a stop light for the vehicle. The above described arrangement enables i the time delay in achieving full illumination to be substantially reduced. ii the current surge on switch on and the electrical noise associated with it to be substantially re duced. iii one or more levels of light output from a given filament to be achieved. It will be appreciated that the above described arrangement has been described by way of example only and that many variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention.