# Conversion of 1,1,1 trichloroperhaloalkanes into perhaloalkanoyl chlorides.

## Abstract
A process for the preparation of perhaloalkanoyl chloride is disclosed which comprises reacting 1,1,1 trichloroperfluoroalkane, with a sulfur trioxidecontaining compound selected from the group consisting of oleum sulfur trioxide and stabilized sulfur trioxide in the presence of catalytic amounts of a halogen catalyst selected from the group consisting of iodine, bromine, iodine monobromide and iodine monochloride and bromine monochloride wherein the 1,1,1 trichloroperhaloalkane is a straight or branched chain acyclic organic compound having 2 to 8 carbon atoms and having at least one trihalomethyl group wherein at least one halo atom is fluorine and having the remaining carbon atoms substituted by F, Cl, Br or I atoms.

## Claims
We claim 1. A process for preparation of perhaloalkanoyl chloride, which comprises contacting a l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane wherein the l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane is a straight or branched chain acyclic organic compound having 2 to 8 carbon atoms and having at least one trihalomethyl group wherein at least one halo atom is fluorine and having the remaining carbon atoms substituted by F, Cl, Br or I atoms with an effective amount of a sulfur trioxide containing substance selected from the group consisting of oleum, SO3 and stabilized SO3 in the presence of a catalytic amount of a halogen catalyst. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the halogen catalyst is a member selected from the group consisting of iodine, bromine, iodine monochloride, iodine monobromide and bromine monochloride. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the halogen catalyst is iodine. 4. The process of claim 1, wherein the halogen catalyst is bromine. 5. The process of claim 1, wherein the halogen catalyst is iodine monochloride. 6. The process of claim 1, wherein the halogen catalyst is iodine monobromide. 7. The process of claim 1, wherein the halogen catalyst is bromine monochloride. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein the effective amount of the sulfur trioxide containing substance contains from one mole to ten moles of sulfur trioxide to about one mole of 1,1,1 trichioroperhalo alkane. 9. The process of claim 1, wherein the catalytic amount of the halogen catalyst is in the range of 0.5 to 10 by weight of the l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane. 10. A process for preparation of trifluoroacetyl chloride, which comprises contacting, in the temperature range of from about 200 to about 100 C, l,l,l trichloro 2,2,2 trifluoroethane with sulfur trioxide containing substance selected from the group consisting of oleum, SO3 and stabilized S03 in a molar ratio of the trichlorotrifluoroethane to sulfur trioxide of from about 1 1 to about 1 10, in the presence of from about 0.5 to about 10 percent by weight of a halogen catalyst based on the weight of the l,l,l trichloro 2,2 ,2 trifluoroethane.

## Description
DESCRIPTION CONVERSION OF 1,1, l TRICHLOROPERHALOALKANES INTO PERHALOALKANOYL CHLORIDES CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION This application is a continuation in part application to co pending U. S. Patent Application SN 216,033, filed December 15, 1980. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to preparation of perhaloalkanoyl chloride by contacting l,l,l tri chloroperhaloalkanes with a S03 containing substance in the presence of a catalytic amount of a halogen catalyst, such as bromine. Perhalo compounds wherein the halogen is chlorine or fluorine are particularly resistant to oxidizing agents. Specifically, trifluoroacetyl chloride,CF3COC1, a known chemical compound having a boiling point of 19 C, is a valuable chemical intermediate, useful for the preparation of trifluoroethanol, trifluoroacetic acid, and trifluoroacetaldehyde. Trifluoroethanol, further is a raw material useful in the manufacture of novel anesthetic compounds. Perhaloalkanoic acids, such as trifluoroacetic acid is also an intermediate for the preparation of compounds useful as herbicides, insecticides, dyes, etc. Higher homologous perhaloalkanoyl chlorides, for example perfluorooctanoyl chloride, CF3 CF2 6COC1 is easily converted to the carboxylic acid or acid salt which is useful as a surfactant. In the relevant prior art procedures, tri fluoroacetyl chloride has been prepared by the catalytic hydrolysis of l,l,l trifluoro 2,2,2 trichloroethane, using oleum, sulfur trioxide dissolved in sulfuric acid , in the presence of toxic mercurial salt catalysts. These prior art procedures are described, particularly in Lawlor and Braid U.S. Patent No.3,102,139 Dittman and Zager U.S. Patent No.3,160,659 and Pauchsch et al. U.S. Patent No.3,725,475. Trifluoroacetyl chloride has also been previously prepared by subjecting a mixture of chlorine, oxygen and l,l,l trifluoro 2,2,2 trichloroethane to ultraviolet irradiation under anhydrous conditions, as described by Braid and Lawlor in U.S. Patent 3,151,051. In general, methods described in the prior art for the preparation of perhaloalkanoyl compounds have required excessively prolonged reaction times, elevated reaction pressures, hazardous ultraviolet radiation, and have generally resulted only in low yields of the desired end products, frequently accompanied by losses of starting materials due to side reactions such as carbon to carbon bond cleavage. In addition, the prior art preparations discussed above have also been characterized by the need to use toxic mercurial salt catalysts, which require costly environmental pollution control systems, and which create difficult environmental waste disposal problems, particularly associated with the safe disposal of by product sulfuryl chloride containing mercurial salts. Thus, a process for the preparation of perhaloalkanoyl chloride from 1,1, l trichloroperhaloalkane using a nonmetallic, nonpolluting, and low cost halogen catalyst, has significant commercial and technical value. Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a process for the preparation of perhaloalkanoyl chloride in the presence of a halogen catalyst which is non metallic and which embodies none of the operating and environmental disadvantages of the prior art procedures. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the objects of the present invention, there is provided a process for the preparation of perhaloalkanoyl chloride which comprises contacting l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane with an effective amount of a sulfur trioxide containing substance selected from the group consisting of oleum, S03 and stabilized SO3 in the presence of a catalytic amount of a halogen catalyst, wherein the l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane is a straight or branched chain acyclic organic compound having 2 to 8 carbon atoms and having at least one trihalomethyl group wherein at least one halo atom is fluorine and having the remaining carbon atoms substituted by F, C1, Br or I atoms. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PRESENT INVENTION AND OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The present invention employs a catalytic amount of a non metallic, halogen catalyst for the contact of l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane with a sulfur trioxide containing substance for a time sufficient to effect conversion thereof to perhaloalkanoyl chloride.While toxic mercurial salts catalysts were disclosed in the U.S. Patent No. 3,102,139, the halogen catalyst of the present invention is a member selected from the group consisting of iodine, bromine, iodine monochloride, iodine monobromide and bromine monochloride. Bromine is the preferred halogen catalyst. The catalytic amount of the halogen catalyst is in the range of from 0.5 to 10 by weight of l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane.An upper limit on the catalytic amount of halogen catalyst has not been found to be critical an amount of halogen catalyst as low as 0.5 by weight of l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane had been found effective.Only economic considerations would preclude employing catalytic amount of halogen catalyt in excess of 10 by weight of 1,1, l trichloroperhaloalkane. The l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane found useful in the present invention is a straight or branched chain acyclic organic compound having 2 to 8 carbon atoms and having at least two trihalomethyl groups, with one trihalomethyl being 1,1,1 trichloromethyl and with the other trihalomethyl having at least one fluorine and having the remaining carbon atoms substituted by F, C1, Br or I. Exemplary of the useful organic compounds are FCX2CC13, CF3CX2CC13, FCX2 CX2 2 Cm13, FCX2 2CX CX2 CC13 and FCX2 CX2 6CC12 FCX2 2CXEMI4.1 whereinX is F, C1, Br or I.While the trichloroperhaloalkanes may contain halogens such as chlorine at carbons other than the one carbon, for example CF2Cl CC13 See ExampleIV and CF2ClCFCl CC13 See Example VI , substantially complete fluorine substitution at carbons other than carbon one is preferred CF3 CF2 6CC13 and CF3CC13 are especially preferred. The sulfur trioxide containing substance useful in the present invention is a member selected from the group consisting of oleum, gaseous or liquid sulfur trioxide and stabilized liquid sulfur trioxide. Oleum is sulfuric acid with an amount of sulfur trioxide varying from a trace so called fuming sulfuric acid to 100 sulfur trioxide. Small amounts of compounds such as trimethoxy boraxime can conveniently be added to stabilize sulfur trioxide in the liquid form and prevent polymerization thereof to a solid. Stabilized liquid sulfur trioxide is the preferred sulfur trioxide containing substances. The amount of the sulfur trioxidecontaining substance employed in the present invention is from 1 mole to 10 moles, preferably 2 moles of sulfur trioxide per one mole of l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane. Only economic considerations preclude employing more than 10 moles of sulfur trioxide per one mole of l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane. Operating temperatures and pressures for the preparation of perhaloalkanyl chloride are not critical.While operating temperatures in the range of 20 to 1000C at pressures of about one atmosphere, plus or minus 0.1 to 0.5 atmospheres have been found effective, as a matter of operating convenience temperatures in the range of 25 to 600C at a pressure of about one atmosphere are preferred. Exact contact times are not critical. Preferred contact times vary between 5 hours and 24 hours for batch production of trifluoroacetylchloride longer contact times result in higher percent conversion of l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane to perhaloalkanoyl chloride. However, for continuous production, it is desirable to contact, in the temperature range of from 200 to 1000C, preferably from 250 and 600C at one atmosphere of pressure, l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane with an effective amount of a sulfur trioxide containing substance, preferably stabilized liquid sulfur trioxide in the presence of a catalytic amount of a halogen catalyst, preferably bromine, preferably in an amount of 1 by weight of l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane. A cold trap provided on a reactor of any convenient design will allow collection of volatiles escaping from the contacting of the present invention.The perhaloalkanoyl chloride can conveniently be fractionally distilled. In a preferred embodiment, condensed volatiles from the contacting of l,l,l tri chloro 2,2,2 trifluoroethane with S03in the presence ofBr2 have been fractionally distilled for recovery of substantially pure, i.e., almost 100 pure, trifluoroacetyl chloride. The chemicals remaining in the reactor have also been fractionally distilled starting materials, l,l,l trichloro 2,2,2 trifluoroethane, sulfur trioxide and halogen catalyst, i.e., bromine can conveniently be recycled for subsequent preparation of trifluoroacetyl chloride. Pyrosulfurylchloride, S205C12, a by product, can also be recycled as a convenient diluent. The process of the invention will be further described and illustrated by the following specific examples. GENERAL EXPERIMENTAL l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkanes are conveniently prepared by methods described in literature.See for example USP 3,102,139. l,l,l trichloro 2,2,2 trifluoroethane is prepared in accordance with the following reactions EMI6.1 EMI6.2 CF2ClCFClCC13 is prepared by addition of CC14 toCF2 CFC1 using A1C13 catalyst. l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkane having an even number of carbons, such as CF3 CF2 2 CC13 is prepared by reaction of a symmetrical ether, such as n C4Fg 2O with A1C13 in an autoclave at 1750 to 2300C. The trichloroperhaloalkane having an odd number of carbons, such as CF3 CF2 3CC13 is prepared by reaction of an unsymmetrical ether, such as CF3 CF2 3OCF2CF3 with AlCl3 in an autoclave reaction at elevated temperatures. EXAMPLE A preparation of CCl3CF2CFClBr for Examples XXXI XXXV. CF2 CFCl 18.4g , CC13Br 80mL and acetyl peroxide 2.0g were shaken in a small autoclave for 12 hours at 1000C to give unchanged olefin 10 , CC13Br and a higher boiling fraction 65 which was distilled to give pure FClBrCCF2CC13. EXAMPLE BPreparation of CCl3CF2CFClI for Examples XXXVI XXXIX. In a manner similar to the above Example A, CCl3I was substituted for CC13Br and pure CC13CF2CFClI was obtained. EXAMPLE CPreparation of CCl3CF2CFClCFClBr for Examples XL XLV. CF2 CFCl 25 g , CCl3Br 25g and benzoyl peroxide 2.0g were shaken in a small autoclave for 18 hours at 1000C to give mainly CC13CF2CFClCF2CFClBr. EXAMPLE DPreparation of CCl3CF2CFClCF2CFClCF2CFClI for ExamplesExamples XLVI L. In a manner similar to Example C hereinabove,CC13I was substituted for CC13Br and pure CC13 CF2CFC1 3I was obtained. Other l,l,l trichloroperhaloalkanes useful in the process of the present invention may be prepared in accordance with the directions of A. L. Henne et al. inJ.A.C.S. 1951, Vol. 73, 5527 8 and J.A.C.S. 1954,Vol. 76, 1175 6 and of R. N. Haszeldine in J. Chem.Soc., 1953, 922 923 and 3565 3572. EXAMPLE I Into a 250 ml, 3 neck reaction flask equipped with a thermometer, magnetic stirring bar, dropping funnel and a water cooled condenser, topped by a dry ice condenser maintained at 150C and connected to Dry Ice trap, cooled to 780C, were charged 150 g 0.80 mole of trifluorotrichloroethane CF3CC13 and 7.5 g bromine.At room temperature, 145 g 1.82 moles of SO3 were added over a half hour period. The reaction mixture was heated from 250C to 600C over a twelve hour period.Fractional distillation of the cold trap product, 102.8 g , effected recovery of 85 g 0.64 mole of trifluoroacetyl chloride CF3COC1 , bp 190C. Distillation of the material remaining in the reaction flask showed the presence of 20 g 0.15 mole CF3CC13, bp 46 C and 110 g 0.52 mole S205C12, bp 1530C, as well as unreacted SO3 and bromine catalyst. Thus of the starting material fed 80 was converted to CF3COC1. The yield based on starting material consumed was 98 . The IR spectrum of the recovered trifluoroacetyl chloride was consistent with the expected structure. EXAMPLE II In the test apparatus as described in ExampleI, and following the procedure of Example I, 37.5g 0.20 mole of CF3CC13, 100g 65 oleum 0.80 mole asSO3 and 3g iodine were heated to reflux for 48 hours.Fractional distillation of the cold trap product, 19.3g, effected recovery of 15.2g 0.114 mole of CF3COC1 for a 57.3 conversion. The yield based on recovery of 13g 0.07 mole CF3CC13 starting material was 87 . EXAMPLE III In the test apparatus as described in ExampleI, and following the procedure of Example I, 37.5g 0.20 mole CF3CC13, 100g 65 oleum 0.80 mole as SO3 and 3g iodine monochloride were heated to reflux for 24 hours. Fractional distillation of the cold trap product, 15g, effected recovery of 12g 0.09 mole of CF3COC1 for a 45 conversion. The yield based on recovery of 16g 0.085 mole of CF3CC13 starting material was 78 . EXAMPLE IV In the test apparatus as described in ExampleI, and following the procedure of Example I, 150g 0.74 mole of CF2ClCC13, 200g 65 oleum 1.60 moles as SO3 and 7.5g bromine were heated from 250C to 600C over a 5 hour period. Fractional distillation of the cold trap product, 90g, gave 77g 0.375 mole ofCF2ClCOCl, bp 260C, for a 51 conversion. EXAMPLE V In the test apparatus as described in ExampleI, and following the procedure of Example I, 75g 0.315 mole of CF3CF2CC13, 100g 65 oleum 0.80 mole as SO3 and 5g bromine were heated from 250C to 600C over a 5 hour period. Fractional distillation of the cold trap product, 50g, gave 42g 0.23 mole of CF3CF2COCl, bp 90C, for a 73 conversion. EXAMPLE VI In the test apparatus as described in ExampleI, and following the procedure of Example I, 135g 0.50 mole of CF2ClCFClCC13, 150 g 65 oleum 1.20 moles as SO3 and 10g bromine were heated from 250C to 600C over a 5 hour period. Fractional distillation of the product gave 90g 0.42 mole CF2ClCFClCOCl for an 84 conversion. EXAMPLES VII XXX In the following examples the process ofExample I is repeated in the apparatus as described except that the l,l,l trichloroperfluoroalkane reactant and catalyst are varied as indicated in Table 1. TABLE 1 1,1,1 trichloroExample perhalcakane Catalyst Product VII CF3 CF2 2CCl3 Br2 CF3 CF2 2COCl VIII I2 IX ICl X II Br XI BrCl XII CF3 2CF CF2 2CC13 Br2 CF3 2CF CF2 2COC1 XIII I2 XIV ICl XV IBr XVI II BrCl XVII CF3 CF2 5CCl3 Br2 CF3 CF2 5COCl XVII ICl XIX IBr XX BrCl II XXI CF3 CF2 6CCl3 Br2 CF3 CF2 6COCl XXII n I2 XXIII ICl XXIV IBr XXV BrCl XXVI FCC12 CFCl 6CC13 Br2 FCCl2 CFCl 6COCl XXVII I2 XXVIII n IC1 n XXIX n IBr N XXX BrCl Examples XXXI L In the following examples the process ofExample I is repeated in the apparatus described except that the l,l,l trichloroperhalofluoroalkane reactant and catalyst are varied as indicated in Table 2. TABLE 2 l,l,l trichloro EMI11.1 tb Example SEP perhaloalkane SEP Catalyst SEP Product tb SEP XXXC SEP FCIBrCCF2CC3 SEP Br2 SEP FClBrCF2COCl tb SEP XXXII SEP N SEP 12 SEP 2 tb SEP XXXIII SEP n SEP IC1 SEP II tb SEP XXXIV SEP N SEP IBr SEP 11 tb SEP XXXV SEP n SEP BrCl SEP I tb SEP XXXVI SEP FClICCF2CC13 SEP Br2 SEP FClICCF2COCl tb SEP XXXVII SEP n SEP 12 tb SEP XXXVIII SEP N SEP ICl tb SEP XXXIX SEP n SEP IBr tb SEP XL SEP N SEP BrCl SEP II tb SEP CIF SEP Cl SEP F tb SEP XLI SEP F SEP 1CF. SEP Br SEP F CF SEP CF SEP OOCL tb SEP 2 SEP ce SEP 1 SEP 21 SEP 2 tb SEP Br SEP C1 SEP Br SEP Cl tb SEP XLII SEP n SEP I2 tb SEP XLIII SEP N SEP IC1 SEP II tb SEP XLIV SEP n SEP IBr SEP N tb SEP XLV SEP N SEP IC1 SEP II tb SEP Cl SEP F SEP F SEP Cl SEP F SEP F tb SEP II SEP I tb SEP XLVI SEP F CCF2tCF2CCF2CC13 SEP Br2 SEP F CCF2CCF21 SEP lF2OOCl tb SEP 1 SEP 2j SEP CCF,CCF,CCF,CC13 SEP Br, SEP CF, SEP 1 SEP 21 tb SEP I SEP Cl SEP C1 SEP I1 SEP I SEP C1 SEP Icl SEP Cl tb SEP XLVII SEP n SEP I2 SEP n tb SEP XLVIII SEP N SEP IC1 SEP n tb SEP XLIX SEP n SEP IBr tb SEP L SEP N SEP BrCl SEP n tb Although certain preferred embodiments of the present invention have been disclosed, for the purposes of illustration, it will be readily evident to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.