# Removal of sulfur dioxide from gases.

## Abstract
Gas contg. 100 ppm. 30 vol. pref. 0.1 5 vol. SO2 is desulphurised by a contacting the gas at 15 80 deg.C with an aq. soln. pH 3 9 pref. 4 6 contg. K citrate at concn. 0.1M saturation pref. 2M to absorb SO2 from the gas into soln. b sepg. gas from the soln. c heating the soln. to strip SO2 from it and d recovering the heated soln. for re use. Pref. the process is conducted at atmospheric pressure. The K citrate soln. has much higher absorbing capacity than comparable Na citrate soln. e.g. 126g. SO2 l. compared with 77g l. and a greater increase in SO2 vapour pressure with temp.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the desulfurisation of gas contain ing from 100 ppm to 30 volume percent sulfur dioxide, which comprises contacting the gas at a temperature of from 15 to 80 0C with an aqueous solution at a pH of from 3 to 9 contain ing mono , di or tri potassium citrate, or a mixture of 2 or more of these citrates, at a concentration of from 0.1 molar to saturation separating the gas from the solution and heating the solution to strip sulfur dioxide therefrom. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the sulfur dioxide concentration of the gas is from 0.1 to 5 volume percent. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the contacting is effected at the adiabatic saturation tempera ture of the gas 4. A process as claimed in claim 3 wherein the tempera ture is about 500C. 5. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the pH is from 4 to 6. 6. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the potassium citrate concentration is about 2 molar. 7. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the molar ratio of potassium cation to citrate in said solution is about 3. 8. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the solution is heated to its boiling point to strip the sulfur dioxide therefrom. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the solu 0 tion is heated to from 105 to 110 C. 10. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein sulfur dioxide is stripped from the solution with the use of open steam. 11. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the stripped solution is recovered for re use in the desulfurisation process. 12. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the contacting is conducted at atmospheric pressure.

## Description
REMOVAL OF SULFUR DIOXIDE FROM C ASEs This invention relates to flue gas desulfurization.More specifically, it relates to a regenerative process for the removal of sulfur dioxide from flue gas and other gas streams. Present processes for the removal of sulfur dioxide from such gas streams as flue gas can be divided into two categories, namely throwaway processes and regenerative or recovery processes. In the throwaway process, exemplified as in U.S.Patent 4,06O,5 7, the sulfur dioxide content of the gas stream is normally removed by contacting the stream with an aqueous slurry of lime or limestone, resulting in the formation of a sludge of mainly calcium sulfate Such a process, while relatively simple and currently the most popular for flue gas desulfurization, has major drawbacks which include the economic and ecological problems attached to the disposal of the sludge, the necessity of continuously supplying fresh absorbent to the system, and numerous operational problems such as the tendency toward crust formation. As a result of such drawbacks with the throwaway process, numerous regenerative processes, in which the absorbent is recycled to the process and the absorbed sulfur dioxide is recovered in the form of a usable product, have been devised. Among these are processes in which the absorbent is a buffered aqueous solution of sodium citrate. In one version of such citrate processes, described, for exanlpler by Vasan in Chemical EngineeringProqress, Vol. 71, No. 5, May, l915, pages 61 65, the sulfur dioxide absorbed in the citrate solution is recovered as sulfur by contacting the sulfur dioxide rich solution with hydrogen sulfide.This approach, however, has certain disadvantages, including the necessity of generating and handling hydrogen sulfide. In an alternative version, disclosed, for exar ple, by Nissen et al in Proceedings Symposium on Flue Gas Desulfurization New Orleans, EPA 600 2 76 136b, May, 1976, pages 843 864, by Farrington et al in The Flakt Boliden Process for SO2Recovery , presentation at the 1979 Annual Meeting of theMetallurgical Society of AIME, New Orleans, Louisiana,February, 1979, and by U.S. Patents 2,031,802 and 4,140,751, the sulfur dioxide is recovered simply by stripping it, preferably with steam, directly from the absorbing solution.Such recovery, while eliminating the necessity of a regenerating chemical, does require con siderable steam consumption. It is therefore the object of the present invention to provide a regenerative process for the desulfurization of gases containing sulfur dioxide which has reduced chemical, operating and equipment costs over existing processes. To date, attempts to use potassium salts in a regenerative process for the removal of sulfur dioxide from gas streams have not met with appreciable success.Such attempts are described in Slack and Hollinden,Sulfur Dioxide Removal from Waste Gases, 2nd Ed., NoyesData Corporation, Park Ridge, New Jersey, 1975, pages 222 224, and in Advanced Concepts SO Removal Process 2 Improvements, EPA 600 7 78 216, November, 1978, pages 128. Sodium and or potassium hydroxides and carbonates are indicated as the preferred alkalis for buffering in the regenerative process of U.S. Patent 4,133,650, in which the absorbent is a buffered aqueous solution of a dicarboxylic acid. A method for the selective removal of sulfur dioxide from a gas also containing hydrogen sulfide in which the gas is contacted with an aqueous solution of an alkali metal salt of an organic acid, preferably potassium citrate, is disclosed in U.S Patents 3,757,488 and 3,833,508. The method fails7 however to disclose or suggest regeneration of the absorbing solution or recovery of the absorbed sulfur dioxide, much less a means for such regeneration and recovery. From a study of equilibrium vapor pressures of sulfur dioxide over aqueous sulfite bisulfite solutions,Johnstone et al, in Industrial and Engineering Chemistry,Vol. 30, No. 1, January, 1938t pages 101 109f concluded that the effect of temperature on the equilibrium vapor pressure of sulfur dioxide over homogeneous solutions of salts of weak acids should not differ greatly from the alkali sulfite bisulfite solutions, in which sodium and potassium were found to be comparable.The assumption of the essential equivalence of sodium and potassium in absorption systems employing citrate ions was again implied by Oestreich in Equilibrium Partial Pressure ofSulfur Dioxide in Alkaline Scrubbing Processes, EPA600 2 76 279, October, 1976 r and by Rochelle in ProcessSynthesis and Innovation in Flue Gas Desulfurization,EPRI FP 463 SR, Special Report, July, 1977, pages 4 37 thru 4 43. It has been found, however, that potassium citrate offers unexpected advantages over sodium citrate in regenerative sulfur dioxide absorption processes in that aqueous potassium citrate solutions not only have a much higher absorbing capacity for sulfur dioxide than corresponding sodium citrate solutions when under the same sulfur dioxide partial pressure, but also show a much greater increase with temperature of the vapor pressure of the sulfur dioxide in solution. Accordingly, a process has been developed for the desulfurization of gas containing from about 100 ppm to about 30 volume percent sulfur dioxide r which comprises contacting the gas at a temperature o from about 15 to 800 C with an aqueous solution at a pH of from about 3 to 9 containing potassium citrate at a concentration of from about 0.1 molar to saturation separating the contacted gas from the contacted solution, and heating the separated solution to strip sulfur dioxide therefrom. In preferred embodiments of the invention, the sulfur dioxide concentration in the gas is from about 0.1 to 5 volume percent the contacting is effected at the adiabatic saturation temperature of the gas, particularly at about 500C the pH of the solutior is from about 4 to 6 the potassium citrate concentration is about 2 molar the molar ratio of potassium cation to citrate in the solution is about 3 the heating is effected to the boiling point of the separated solution, particularly to from about 105 to 11coy sulfur dioxide is stripped from the separated solution with the use of open steam the separated solution, after heating to drive off sulfur dioxide, is recovered for reuse in the desulfurization process and the process is conducted at atmospheric pressure. While not wishing to be bound to a given theory, it is believed that the unexpected superiority of potassium citrate over sodium citrate in the regenerative process for sulfur dioxide removal from gas streams involves the formation of a thermally unstable complex involving potassium, citrate and bisulfite ions. The complex removes free bisulfite from, and thus increases the total sulfur dioxide solubility of , the system upon heating, the absorbed sulfur dioxide is readily released from solution. The process of the present invention is effective in the desulfurization of a wide variety of gases including those gas streams containing sulfur dioxide in amounts as low as about 100 ppm or lower as well as those in which the sulfur dioxide concentration is as high as about 30 volume percent. Illustrative of such gases are utility flue gases, such as those resulting from the burning of fossil fuel such as coal and oil, in which the sulfur dioxide content of the gas may range from about 100 to 5000 ppm industrial flue gases, such as the Claus tailgases and the gases from sulfuric acid plants which typically have a sulfur dioxide content of from about 2 to 4 volume percent and smelter gases from the roasting of nonferrous ores, in which the sulfur dioxide content may be as high as 20 volume percent or more. The sulfur dioxide content of the gas to be treated by the present process will generally be from about 0.1 to 5 volume percent, however, the process being particularly suitable for flue gases from the burning of high sulfur coal in which the sulfur dioxide content of the gas is usually from about 1000 to 5000 ppm. These gases will generally be pretreated before introduction into the desulfurization process. For example, a hot flue gas may be subjected to electrostatic precipitation for particulate removal cooled by heat exchange to slightly above the sulfuric acid dew point of the gas, normally about 125 to 2500C and then scrubbed in such as a venturi scrubber to remove residual particulates and strongly acidic gaseous components, such as hydrogen chloride and sulfur trioxide, which might be detrimental to the process equipment, as well as to cool and humidify the gas to its adiabatic saturation temperature, which with utility flue gases is about 500C. Other constituents7 such as oxygen, carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides, which will not materially affect the process, are generally not removed from the gas. The sulfur dioxide content of such a gas is removed in the present process by contacting the gas with an aqueous solution of potassium citrate, during which contact sulfur,dioxide is absorbed into the solution. The term potassium citrate, herein and in the appended claims, is meant to include potassium citrate in which the citrate is in the form of the mono , di or tricitrate ion, alone or in combination, as well as in which the potassium ion is supplied also by potassium salts other than the citrate. Preferably, the potassium citrate introduced into the process is tripotassium citrate, in which the molar ratio of potassium cation to citrate is 3. The concentration of the potassium citrate in the solution may vary from about 0.1 molar to saturation, concentrations below about 0.1 molar being too dilute to achieve the desired results. The preferred concentration is about 2 molar. The pH of the process solution may range from a low of about 3, which is essentially that for monopotassiurn citrate solutions, to a high of about 9, which is essentially that for solutions of tripotassium citrate.Preferably the absorption and the subsequent stripping, described hereinafter, are conducted in the pK range of from about 4 to 6. At a pH much below 4, the effectiveness for absorption of sulfur dioxide in the solution, particularly when treating gases containing low concentrations of sulfur dioxide, is greatly reduced, while at a pH of much above 6, the stripping of the absorbed sulfur dioxide from the solution requires excessive consumption of steam. Although subatmospheric and superatmospheric pressures may be used, particularly during stripping, the process of the present invention is most practically conducted at atmospheric pressure. Under such condition, the sulfur dioxide laden gas is contacted with the potassium citrate containing solution at a temperature of from about 15 to 800C. Temperatures substantially outside this range are not practical, since with temperatures much below 15 C, excessive cooling o f the system is required, while at temperatures much above 80 C, the solubility of the sulfur dioxide in the absorbing solution is too low. Preferably the absorption is conducted at the adiabatic saturation temperature of the gas, which, as indicated hereinbefore, is about 500C for utility flue gases. Any suitable gas liquid contacting apparatus may be used for the absorption. Bubble cap or tray columns, which are particularly suitable for countercurrent contacting operations in which the ratio of the gas to the liquid may be quite high, are generally preferred.Such apparatus, shown, for example, in U.S. Patent 471337650 for this purpose, allows for simultaneous contact and separation of the gas and liquid streams and assures an efficient transfer of the sulfur dioxide from the former to the latter. The contacted and separated potassium citrate solution containing the absorbed sulfur dioxide is heated to strip the sulfur dioxide therefrom. The heating is normally effected to the boiling point of the solution.At atmospheric pressure, this temperature will be from about 100 to 1250C. In a particularly preferred process using solutions about 2 molar in potassium citrate, the atmospheric or normal boiling point of the solution will be from about 105 to 1100C. Stripping of the heated solution can be accomplished in any suitable gas liquid contacting unit. Especially suitable are countercurrent units, such as those preferred in the absorption step as well as packed columns. Although the stripping may be accomplished with indirect heating means, such as a reboiler, the use of open steam is preferred. The sulfur dioxide and accompanying water in the overheads are cooled to remove the major portion of the water, and the resulting sulfur dioxide is used for any desired function such as for the manufacture of sulfuric acid. The separate potassium citrate solution depleted of sulfur dioxide is recovered for reuse in the process.Such recovery might include cooling to the absorption temperature, preferably by exchange against the contacted and separated sulfur dioxide rich solution being heated for stripping reducing the levels of sulfate ion, formed from the oxidation of sulfite during absorption and stripping, and other impurities, such as by removing a portion of the stream and replenishing with fresh tripotassium citrate and water and adjustment of the citrate and potassium cation concentrations and pH of the solution. The following examples are illustrative of the process of the present invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention, the scope of which is defined by the claims. Example I Comparison of Potassium and Sodium Citrates for the Regenerative Absorption of Sulfur Dioxide Solutions of tripotassium citrate, trisodium citrate, dipotassium citrate and disodium citrate in deionized water, each at a concentration of 2.0 molar, were prepared using F.C.C. grades of the tribasic salts and, for the dibasic salts, a combination of the tribasic salts and F.C.C. grade citric acid. Each solution was then equilibrated at 500C against a synthetic gas stream of sulfur dioxide in nitrogen at two predetermined concentrations of the sulfur dioxide Equilibrium was established by bubbling the gas through the solution until the concentration of the sulfur dioxide in the solution, as determined by iodimetric nitration, remained constant.The equilibrations are summarized in Table I. Table I Equilibrating Liquid, Buffer Gas, ppm SO2 Gm SO2 Liter Citrate 2,500 140 21,500 169 Na3 Citrate 2,500 77 21,500 96 K H Citrate 2,750 52 21,500 66 Na2R Citrate 2,750 17 21,500 32 Sulfur dioxide was added to 2.0 molar solutions of tripotassium citrate and trisodium citrate at 500C and atmospheric pressure to produce solutions having a sulfur dioxide partial pressure of about 1.6 mm mercury.The sulfur dioxide content of each of the solutions was determined iodimetrically. Aliquots of the solutions were then equilibrated in sealed containers at atmospheric pressure at temperatures of 50, 70 and 900C. The sulfur dioxide content of the equilibrium gas phase over each aliquot was determined by gas liquid chromatography analysis, and the sulfur dioxide vapor pressure of the aliquot calculated therefrom. The testing is summarized in Table II. Table TTBuffer K3 Citrate Ma3 CitrateLiquid concentration, gm SO2 liter, 126 77 502 vapor pressure, mm g 500C 1.7 1.6 700C 7.5 4.8 900C 22.8 12.6 ratio 900C 500C 13.7 8.0 These results clearly show that, when compared to sodium citrate, aqueous solutions of potassium citrate not only have a much higher capacity for the absorption of sulfur dioxide but, more importantly, also show a much greater increase with temperature in the vapor pressure of the sulfur dioxide in solution.This combined effect gives potassium citrate a unique advantage in the citrate regenerative process for removing sulfur dioxide from flue gases, allowing for higher throughputs and a considerable reduction in steam consumption. Example 2 Absorption Data A 2.0 molar solution of tripotassium citrate at 500C containing sulfur dioxide at a concentration of either 30 or 61 grams per liter was fed to the top plate of a 6 tray, 4 inch diameter, bubble cap absorption column countercurrent to a synthetic flue gas at 500C of nitrogen containing about 2,500 ppm sulfur dioxide.The concentration of sulfur dioxide in the rich absorbent solution leaving the bottom of the column and in the desulfurized flue gas leaving the top of the column at equilibrium were determined iodimetrically, and the results are summarized in Table III. Table III Absorption Data Solution, Gm SO2 Liter Flue Gas, ppm 502 In Out In Out 30 107 2r5.50 20 61 130 2,640 190 Stripping Data A sulfur dioxide rich absorption solution containing about 140 grams per liter of sulfur dioxide in aqueous 2.0 molar tripotassium citrate solution was preheated to 1060C and fed to the top plate of a 15 tray7 4 inch diameter, sieve tray stripping column countercurrent to open steam added to the column at a point just below the bottom tray. The steam rate was varied to discharge the regenerated absorption solution at various levels of sulfur dioxide. The results of the stripping operation are summarized in Table IV. Table IV Stripping Data Feed solution 140 5 gm SO2 liter, pH 4.8 Stripped Solution Overhead Composition Gm SO2 Liter pH Water SO2, Gm Gm 121 5.0 2.3 108 5.2 2.8 82 5.5 4.4 71 5.6 5.9 61 5.8 7.0 The solubility of sulfur dioxide in a 2.0 molar solution of tripotassium citrate for a synthetic gas containing 2,500 ppm sulfur dioxide in nitrogen was determined, by the method of Example 1, to be 140 grams per liter. An equilibrium curve for the absorption was then constructed based on these values and the theoretical relationship between sulfur dioxide solubility, vapor pressure and hydrogen ion concentration. From this curve, it was determined that the absorption column with 6 actual plates was equivalent to about 3.0 theoretical plates. Similarly, a 2.G molar solution of tripotassium citrate containing 94 grams of sulfur dioxide per liter was determined to have an equilibrium vapor composition of 0.095 gram of sulfur dioxide per gram of water at the normal boiling point. An equilibrium curve for the stripper was constructed based on these values, and for the stripper run giving a stripped solution of 70 grams sulfur dioxide per liter, the number of theoretical plates in the column was determined to be about 4.5. On the basis of the constructed equilibrium curves, the following regenerative desulfurization process is calculated A flue gas at 500C and containing 2,500 ppm sulfur dioxide is passed upward countercurrent to a regenerated aqueous solution 2 molar in tripotassium citrate at 500C and pH 5.7 containing 70 grams liter of dissolved sulfur dioxide in a bubble cap column having 3 theoretical plates. The treated flue gas exiting the top of the column contains 250 ppm sulfur dioxide, for a sulfur dioxide removal of 90 percent. The sulfur dioxide rich absorption solution leaving the bottom of the column, at pH 5.0 and containing 125 grams liter of sulfur dioxide, is heated to 1060C and fed to the top of a packed stripper column having 4.5 theoretical plates ccuntercurrent to open steam at atmospheric pressure. The overhead vapor from the stripper, containing 7.5 grams of water per gram of sulfur dioxide, is cooled to condense the bulk of the water and leave a vapor stream of about 95 volume percent sulfur dioxide. The sulfur dioxide depleted bottom stream from the column, containing 70 gratns4l,iter of sulfur dioxide, is cooled, preferably including change against the sulfur dioxide rich solution from the absorber, to 500C for recycle to the absorber. With a stripping column having 10 theoretical plates, the weight composition of the stripper overheads is 5.6 1 water sulfur dioxide. This overhead composition compares with a published value of 12 1 for a stripper column operating with sodium citrate solutions. 1 1 J. F. Farrington, Jr. and S. Bengtssonr The FlaktBoliden Process for SO2 Recover, presented at 1979Annual Meeting of the Metallurgical Society of AIME, New Orleans, Louisiana, February, 1979