# Production of cyanoborohydrides.

## Abstract
A process for the preparation of compounds of the general formula RBH₃CN wherein R is an alkali metal, a quaternary ammonium group or a phosphonium group wherein a compound of the formula RCN is treated with a stoichiometric amount or slightly less than a stoichiometric amount of a BH₃ donor is described. The final products are useful as hydrolysis stable reductants and as synthetic inter mediates.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of a cyanoborohydride having the general formula RBII3CN wherein II is an alicali metal, a quaternary ammonium group, or a phosphonium group characterised in that a a cyanide compound of the general formula RCN wherein R is as defined above is treated with a BH donor, 3 said compound 1ACN and said BH3 donor being present in about equal molar proportions, and b that the product produced by the treatment of step a is warmed at a temperature of at least 600C for a period of at least one half hour. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1, further characterised in that the BH3 donor is the molecular complexBH3 tetrahydrofuran. 3. A process as claimed in claim 2, further characterised in that the molecular complex BH3.tetrahydrofuran is prepared by treating the molecular complex BF3.diethyl ether with a compound of the formula RBH4 wherein R is as defined in claim 1. 4. A process as claimed in claim 3, further characterised in that the molecular complex BH3.tetrahydrofuran is separated from the by products of its preparation prior to treatment of said cyanide compound with said complex. 5. A process as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the BH donor is diborane, a BH3. 3 dimethylsulphide complex or a BH3.dialkyl ether complex containing 4 to 10 carbon atoms in the dialkyl ether. 6. A process as claimed in any of claims 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 wherein R is sodium. 7. A process for the production of a cyanoborohydride according to claim 1 and substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any one of the Examples.

## Description
PRODUCTION OF CYANOBOROHYDRIDES This invention relates to borohydrides and more specifically to a process for the preparation of cyanoborohydrides. The preparation of lithium, sodium and quaternary ammonium cyanoborohydrides by the reaction of anhydrousHCN with the appropriate borohydride salt is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,667,923. The preparation of potassium cyanoborohydride in analogous fashion is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 31697,232. A detailed study of sodium cyanoborohydride preparation is given in InorganicChemistry, volume 9, page 2146 1970 . The present invention provides a synthetic route for the preparation of cyanoborohydrides in good yield, and of high purity and having improved storage stability while avoiding the presence of HCN either as a reactant or as a by product of reaction. The invention provides a process for the preparation of a cyanoborohydride of the general formula RBH3CN wherein R is an alkali metal, a quaternary anunonium group, or a phosphonium group, characterised in that a compound of the general formula RCN wherein R is as defined above is treated with a BH3 donor. The compounds obtained by this process are known to be reducing agents for organic and inorganic compounds and of being, in aqueous solution, relatively more resistant to protonolysis than the corresponding compoundsRBH4 wherein R is. as defined above and particularly at pH values below neutral. The products of this process are also more storage stable than the products produced by U.S. Patent No. 3,667,933. They are also intermediates in the synthesis of known compounds having therapeutic utility in warm blooded animals. Of particular interest, is that embodiment of the process wherein the BH donor is BH3.tetrahydrofuran. 3 3The BH3.tetrahydrofuran may be produced by a process which comprises treating a compound of the formula RBH4 wherein R is as defined above with the molecular complex EF tetranydrofuran. One embodiment of the process of the invention is the complete reaction sequence from the boron trifluoride.tetrahydrofuran molecular complex, treatment of the BF3.tetrahydrofuran in which treatment of the cyanide compound is performed without separation of the BH3.tetrahydrofuran complex from the by products of its preparation. Alternatively, the BH3.tetrahydrofuran complex may be separated from the by products of its preparation prior to treatment with the cyanide compound. The manner of practising the process of the invention will now be described with reference to tile preparation of a specific embodiment thereof, namely, sodium cyanoborohydride NaBH3CN . To prepare sodium cyanoborohydride, sodium cyanide may be suspended in tetrahydrofuran and a solution of BH3 in tetrahydrofuran may be added, while stirring, aft as rapid a rate as can conveniently be accommo dated by the apparatus. On a laboratory scale, a rate of addition of 1 liter of BH3 solution per our is convenient. The temperature of the mixture during the addition is not particularly critical and may range from 10 C to about 60 C, normal room temperature or slightly above, 20 0C to about 30 C, is preferred. The stoichiemetry of the reaction is of course 1 mole of BH3 to 1 mole of sodium cyanide, and it is prefcrred that the reaction be conducted with hou a 5 excess of cyanide. After addition of the BH3 solution is complete, the reaction may be stirred at about room temperature for up to about 5 additional hours. One skilled in the art will recognize that to insure tloe presence of only cyanoborohydride and the absence of iso adducts or higher homologues, a period of heating at temperatures of over 60 C will be desirable.Heating at reflux for from one half hour to 10 hours or longer, preferably about 7 hours, is convenient. Recovery of the product from the cooled reaction mixture after reflux may be by conventional techniques. Removal of undissolved material by filtration followed by evaporation of the filtrate is a convenient method. The reagents entering into the reaction should, naturally, be substantially anhydrous. Sodium cyanide is, of course, an article of commerce. Borane BH3 in tetrahydrofuran is commercially available.It may be prepared from boron trifluoride in diethylether by first replacing the diethyl ether with tetrahydrofuran by conventional techniques, adding the BF3.diethyl ether to tetrahydrofuran and evaporating the diethyl ether is convenient, and then treating the BF3 tetrahydrofuran solution with sodium borohydride. The 13113 .tet rahydrofuran molecular complex so produced may either be purified by filtration and stabilized by the added tion of a small quantity of sodium borohydride, or thr treatment with sodium cyanide may be performed directly without separation of the by products of generation of the BH3. Ijie use of the products prepared by the process of the invention are well known in the literature. Selectivity with sodium cyanoborohydride in the reduction of oximes, aldehydes and ketones and use in the selective introduction of deuterium is described by Borch et al in the Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 93, page 2897 1971 . Similar use of lithium cyanoberehydride is reported by Borch in the Journal of the AmericanChemical Society, Vol. 91, page 3396 1969 . U. S. Patent No.3,647,890 is concerned with the use of lithium, sodium, potassium or quaternary arrunonium cyanoborohydrides as reducing agents for ketones. Hutchins et al describe the reduction of alkyl iodides, bromides and tosylates with sodium cyanoborohydride in hexamethylphosphormaide inChemical Communications 1971 page 1907. Kreevoy andJohnston describe the reduction of triphenylcarbinol to triphenylmethane in Croatica Chcmica Acta, Vol. 45, page 511 1973 . The formation of nitrogen base donor cyanoborane addition compounds is described by Uppal and Kelly in Chemical Communications 1970 page 1619.The selective deoxygenation of al dehydes and ketones including hindered systems is described by Hutchins et al in he Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 95, page 3662 1973 . The reduction of mono and di keto saturated steroids is described by Boutigue et al in C. R. Acad. Sc. Paris, t.276,Serie C, page 437 1973 and the reduction of conjugated steroidal ketones is described by Boutigue et al in Bulletin de la Society Chemique de France 1973 page 3062. The selective reduction of aliphatic ketones and aldehydes to hydrocarbons with sodium cyanoborohydride and p toluenesulfonyl hydrazide in dimethylformamide sulfolane is described in Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 93, page 1793 1971 .The selective reduction of primary iodides and, to a lesser extent, bromides to primary hydrocarbons with tetrabutylammonium cyanoborohydride in hexamethylphosphoramide is described in the Journal of theAmerican Chemical Society, Vol. 95, page 6131 1973 .The reductive deoxgenation of alpha ,ss unsaturated R tosylhydrazones with sodium cyanoborohydride i.s discussed by Hutchins et al in the Journal of Organic Chemistry, Vol. 40, page 923 1975 and by Taylor and Djerassi in the Journal of theAmerican Chemical Society, Vol. 98, page 2275 1976 Selective reductions of alpha ,ss unsaturated esters, nitriles and nitro compounds With sodium cyanoborohydride are described by Hutchins et al in the Journal of OrganicChemistry, Vol. 41, page 3328 1976 .Hutchins andKandasamy describe the reduction of conjugated aldehydes and ketones in acidic methanol and hexamethylphosphortriamide in the Journal of Organic Chemistry, Vol. 40, page 2530 1975 . The selective reduction of sugar iodides and tosylates with sodium cyanoborohydride is described by Kuzuhara et al in Carbollydrate Research 1975 Vol. 43 2 , page 293.Spielvogel and Bratton describe the preparation of macrocyclic cyanoboranes from sodium cyanoborohydride in the Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol. 94 page 8597 1972 . Cure of sulficle containing polymers with lithium cyanoborchydride is described in U. S. Patent 3,265,G71. U. S.Patent 3,637,516 describes bleaching liquer for ground wood pulp containing alkali metal cyanoborohydride as the reducing agent. Cyanotrihydroborate complexes of transition me tals are described by Lippard and Welcker in Chemical Communications 1970 page 515 andInorganic Chemistry, Vol. 11, page 6 1972 . Cationic ruthenium ammine complexes of cyanotrihydroborate are described by Ford in Chemical Communications 1971 page 7. Cyanotrihydroborato complexes of rhodium and iridium are described by Vaska et al in Chemical Communications 1971 paye 1615. Photosensitive copper complexes suitable for image formation incorporating cyanotrihydroborate ion are described in U. S. Patent 3,989,732. Chemical plating baths containing alkali metal cyanoborohydride are described in U. S. Patent 3,637,472. An electroless gold plating bath containing alkali metal cyanoborohydride is described inU. S. Patent 3,697,296. Use of cyanoborohydride anich to chemically fog a silver halide photographic emulsion is described in U. S. Patent 3,951,656.The use of eanoboro hydride anion in the direct coupling of oligosaccharides to proteins and derivatized gels is described by Gra inArchives of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Vol. 163, page 426 1974 . Use of cyanoborohydride salts to reduce imminium compounds to amines is described in U. S. Patent No.3,873,621. Nild reduction of N, N mercuriobistosylhydrazones with sodium cyanoborohydride, synthesis of N arylmethyl N tosylhydrazines and deoxygenation of aromatic ketones is described by Rosini et al in Synthesis 1976 page 530.Selective reductions with sodium cyanoborohydride in the course of determination of the stereochemistry of octopine and its isomers and their enzymic properties are described by Biellmann et al in Biooryanie Chemistry 1977 Vol 6 i 89. The use of sodium cyanoborohydride in the synthesis of biradical nitroxides is described by Rauckman eb al inOrg. Prep. Proced. Int. 1977 Vol. 9 2 page 53. ,u ine catalysis of te reduction of ketones by sodium cyanoboro hydride is described by Chow in Tung Wu Shu Li Hsueh Pao 1975 page 139.A general synthesis of amine cyanohoranes from sodium cyanoborohydride and the anti tumor activity and hypolipidemic activity of Me3N BIl2COOII and its N ethylamide derivative both prepared from Me3N BH2CN are described inInorganic Chemistry, Vol. 17, page 2327 1978 .The use of sodium cyanoborohydride in the N methylation of amides and related compounds by reduction of methylols is described by Basha et al in Synthetic Communications, Vol. 7, page 549 1977 BH3.tetrahydrofuran molecular complex or BH3diethyl ether molecular complex may also be prepared by passing gaseous diborane into the desired solvent and stabilizing the resulting solution with a small quantity of sodium borohydride. One skilled in the art will recognize that in place of the sodium cyanide illustrated, one may substitut other cyanide salts of alkali metals such as lithium, potassium, rubidium or cesium or of quaternary ammonium ions, which are either commercially available, obtainable by neutralization of llCN,preferably in aqueous solution, with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base followed by freeze drying of the solution of the salt, or by conventional ion exchange techniques, to prepare the other cyanoborohydrides contemplated as obtainable through the processes of the invention. The term quaternary ammonium radical contemplates a tetra substituted nitrogen atom of the general formulaEMI7.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, and R4 are independently lower alkyl of 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, alkenyl of out 3 to about 20 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of 3 to about 6 carbon atoms, mono carbocyclic aryl of about 6 carbon atoms, mono carbocyclic aryl alkyl of from 7 to about 11 carbon atoms, halo, amino, carboxy, alkoxy carbonyl, nitrile, or hydroxyl alkyl of from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms, alkoxy alkyl of 2 to 22 carbon atoms, or mono carbocyclic aryl hyclroxy alkyl of from 7 to about 15 carbon atoms, or en taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached, any two of R1, R2, R3 or R4 may be concatenated to form a 5 or G membered heterocyclic ring containing carbon, hydrogen, oxygen or nitrogen, said heterocyclic rings and said mono carbocyclic aryl groups being unsubstituted or halo, hydroxy, amino, or mono or dialkyl substituted, said alkyl groups being straight, branched chain or cyclic and contain ing 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Illustrative of these are quaternary ammonium ions such as tetramethyl, tetraethyl, tetrapropyl, tetra isopropyl, tetra n bu Lyl , te tra i bu tyl , t bu tyl trimethyl, p pheny 1 trimethyl, benzyl trimethyl, cyclohexyl triethyl, allyl trimethyl, 2 chloroethyl trimethyl, 2 hydroxy butyl trimethyl, tri 2 hydroxy ethyl methyl, 2 ethoxy propyl trimethyl, alpha amino p tolyl trimethyl, 3 cyanopropyl trimethyl, 2 carboxy ethyl trime thyl, amyl dimethyl phenyl, cetyl trimethyl, tricapryl methyl, piperidinium dimethyl, morpholinium diethyl, pyrrolidinium dimethyl, piperazinium cyclohexyl methyl, 1 methyl piperidinum dimethyl, 4 ethylmorpholinium dipropyl, 1 isopropyl pyrrolidinium dimèthyl, 1,4 dimethyl piperazinium diethyl, 1 n butylpiperidiniumdi methyl, 2 methyl piperidinium di ethyl, 1 ethyl 2 methyl piperidinium dipropyl , tetraethanol, diethyl die thanol, tri n butyl mono ethanol, tris hydroxy methyl methyl, phenyl di methyl mono ethanol, and the like. One skilled in the art will also recognize that, although the process of the invention have becn illustrated through use of tetrahydrofuran as a preferred solvent, any inert solvent in which the reactants and products have reasonable solubility, as well as mixtures thereof, may be employed as equivalents. Typical examples of these solvents are ethers containing from about 4 to about 10 carbon atoms, such as, diethyl ether, the dimethyl ethers of ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, trie thylene ylycol and the like, as well as dimethyl formamide and dimethyl sulfide.It will similarly be obvious that mixtures of two or more of these solvents may be employed. One skilled in the art will recognize that, although the process of the invention has been illustrated by use of a BH3.tetrahydrofuran molecular complex as a BH3 donor, any compound or molecular complex capable of donating BH3 niay be employed as an equivalent. Typical examples of these are diborane, BH3.dimethylsulfide, or 13113 in a molecular complex with the aforementioned ethers containing from 4 to 10 carbon atoms. One skilled in the art will also recognize thatBF3 diethyl ether complex may be utilized to prepare BH3.tetrahydrofuran complex without intermediate conversion to a BF3.tetrahydrofuran complex. In addition to the quaternary ammonium moieties illustrated hereinabove as suitable for use in the practice of the invention, it will be understood that the analogous phosphonium cyanides may be treated in analogous fashion with BH3 donors to prepare the corresponding phosphonium cyanoborohydrides which may be produced by the process of this invention. The following preparations and examples illustrate the preferred methods of carrying out the process of the invention. PREPARATION A Conversion of BF3 Diethyl Ether Complex to BF3. Tetrahydrofuran Complex Add boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 275 ml, 2.18 moles to tetrahydrofuran 190 ml, 2.35 miles in a vessel equipped for suction and stirring. The mixture is stirred at room temperature under reduced pressure until substantially all diethyl ether is removed. Removal of the diethyl ether may, if desired, be followed by gas chromatography. PREPARATION B Borane Tetrahydrofuran Complex from Boron Trifluoride Tetrahydrofuran Complex Sodium borohydride 62.74g., 1.658 moles is suspended in tetrahydrofuran 810 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere and cooled to about 5 C. The boron trifluoride tetrahydrofuran complex of Preparation A is added slowly with stirring over a period of about 2 hours.Stirring is continued for about 0.5 hour after the addition is complete. Filtration through a pressure filter under nitrogen into a vessel cooled in an ice bath gives the title product 1.7 molar in tetrahydrofuran solution 800 ml. . Sodium borohydride 0.7 g., 0.0185 mole is added to stabilize the solution. EXAMPLE 1 Sodium Cyanoborohydride Sodium cyanide 114.9 g., 2.344 moles is suspended in tetrahydrofuran 200 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere at about ambient temperature 22 C . The cooled ice bath borane tetrahydrofuran solution from Preparation B is then added slowly while stirring under nitrogen. Addition requires about one hour and the reaction is stirred for an additional 5 hours at room temperature, then heated at reflux for about 10 hours. After cooling, the reaction mixture is filtered and the filtrate evaporated to dryness in vacuo at 60 0C to give the RTI ID 10.14 title product as a white powder which is further dried in a vacuum oven 1 hour at room temperature, 24 hours at 90 C , 82 .0g. Analysis for NaBH3CN Calc H,4.81 B,17.20 CN,41.40 Found H,4.45 B,15.69 CN,37.43 . Repetition of the processes of Preparation B and Example 1 results in product yields ranging from 59 to 71 based on the boron trifluoride tetrahydrofuran complex. EXAMPLE 2 Preparation of Sodium Cyanoborohydride directly from Boron Trifluoride Tetrahydrofuran Complex without Isolation of the Intermediate Borane Tetrahydrofuran Complex Sodium borohydride 65.70g., 1.737 moles is suspended in tetrahydrofuran 810 ml and cooled in an ice bath while under a nitrogen atmosphere. Boron trifluoride tetrahydro furan complex 2.18 moles prepared as in Preparation A is added by a procedure analogous to that of Preparation B.After a post addition stirring period of 1.5 hours, sodium cyanide 112.7 g, 2.299 moles is added slowly in small batches while continuing cooling. When addition is complete, the reaction mixture is stirred for 5 hours at room temper ature and then heated at reflux for 10 hours. After cooling and filtration under N2, the filtrate is evaporated and the residue dried as in Example 1 to obtain the title product 116.6g.Analysis for NaBII3CN Calc H, 4.81 B, 17.20 CN, 41.40S Found H, 4.60 B, 16.89 CN, 33.14 Repetition of this procedure results in yields of from 85 to 88 of theoretical based on boron trifluoride tetrahydrofuran complex. PREPARATION C Preparation of Boron Tetrahydrofuran Complex directly from Boron Trifluoride Diethyl Ether Complex Following a procedure generally analogous to that of Preparation B, from NaBH4 79.67g., 2.11 m. , BS3. diethyl ether complex 2.69 m., 340 ml. and tetrahydrofuran 1000 ml. is obtained a 1.5 molar solution of borane tetrahydrofuran complex 900 ml. . EXAMPLE 3 Preparation of Sodium Cyanoborohydride from the Borane Tetrahydrofuran Complex of Preparation C Following a procedure analogous to that ofExample 1, there is obtained from the product solution of Preparation C and sodium cyanide 80 g , S5.1 g. of sodium cyanoborohydride.Analysis for NaBH3CN Calc H, 4.81 B, 17.20 CN, 41.40 Found H, 4.14 B, 16.05 CN, 35.38 4Samples of products prepared by the process of thi application, Samples 1 to 5 inclusive, and a sample of sodium c anoborohydride prepared by the process ofU. S. Patent No. 3,697,232, are stored in closed bottles at room temperature 18 25 C . This latter sample turns black and loses 50 of its active hydride content after 2 to 3 months storage at room temperature. Samples 1 to 5 retain their initial white color and are free flowiny. The initial hydride analysis and that after the storage period indicated for each sample is Sample No. Initial II Storage Il time 1 4.4G 4.36 4 months 2 3.98 4.20 3 months 3 4.47 4.47 3 montlls 4 4.60 4.46 3 months 5 4.45 4.38 3 months PREPARATION D Borane Tetrahydrofuran Complex in Tetrahydrofuran from Diborane Pass diborane gas 2270 g., 82 moles into dry tetrahydrofuran 164 1. under argon at a rate of 30 35 cu. ft. per mini. After addition is complete, analyze for borane concentration by standard techniques hydrolysis and titration of boric acid so formed is a convenient method . Add sodium borohydride 0.19 g., 0.005 moles per mole of retainedBH3 to stabilize the solution. EXAMPLE 5 Potassium Cyanoborohydride from Potassium Cyanide and Diborane Treat a suspension of potassium cyanide 1 mole in dimethylformamide with diborane 0.5 mole under conditions analogous to those described in Example 1 to prepare the title product in dimethylformamide solution.