# Novel beta lactam derivatives.

## Abstract
3 Heterocyclylamino ethylthio 6 substd. 7 oxo carbapen 2 em 2 carboxylic acids and their S oxides of formula I and their salts and esters are new. R is 1 6C alkyl or 3 6C alkenyl n is 0 or 1 and ring X is a mono or poly cyclic N contg. heterocyclic gp. I in which R is Et and the H atoms at C5 and C6 are trans are pref. I are broad spectrum antibacterials useful as therapeutic agents in man and animals and as industrial bactericides e.g. food preservatives, disinfectants, etc. Dose is 5 500 mg kg daily.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 A compound of the general formulaEMI76.1 wherein R is Cl C6 alkyl or C3 C6 alkenyl, n is zero or 1 and the stylized groupEMI76.2 represents a mono or polycyclic N containing hete ic group, and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters. 2 A compound according to. Claim 1 wherein R is ethyl. 3 A compound according to Claim 2 wherein n is zero and the stylized groupEMI76.3 is a monocyclic N containing heterocyclic group. 4 A process fir preparing a compound according toCl.aim 1 which comprises reacting ay5 keto ester of formula IIEMI76.4 wherein R is as defined in Claim 1 and the COOR, group represents a cleavable ester or a pharmaceutically acceptable ester group, with diphenyl chlorophosphate whereby the intermediate enol phosphate IIIEMI77.1 is obtained which is reacted with a suitably selected nucleophile of formulaEMI77.2 wherein the stylizedEMI77.3 is as defined in Claim 1 and R is hydrogen or easily removable protective group of the amino function, to give a compound of formula I wherein R, R and the group COOR1 are as defined above, and n is zero, optionally oxidizing the sulfide group to sulfoxide and when a compound of formula I in the form of the free acid or as a corresponding salt thereof is desired, catalytically deprotecting the corresponding cleavable esters thus obtained. 5 A pharmaceutical composition which comprises an antibiotically effective amount of a compound according toClaim 1 and a pharmaceutical carrier therefor. 6 A compound as in any of preceeding Claims 1,2, and 3 wherein the hydrogen atoms at C S and C 6 have trans stereochemistry.

## Description
NOVEL B LACTAM DERIVATIVESThe present invention relates to a novel class of B lactam antibiotics of the general formulaEMI1.1 wherein R is Cl C6 alkyl or C3 C6 alkenyl, n is zero or one and the stylized groupEMI1.2 represents a mono or polycyclic N containing heterocyclic group, and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters.This invention also relates to the process. for preparing such compounds, to pharmaceutical compositions containing them and to methods of treatment comprising administering such compounds and. compositions when an antibiotic effect is desired.In the present. specification and claims, the term Cl C6 alkyl is intended to refer to a straight or branched alkyl group containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, and the term C3 C6 alkenyl designates a straight or branched alkenyl group containing from 3 to 6 carbon atoms and one or two double bonds.The term mono or polycyclic N containing heterocyclic group identifies mono , bi , and tri cyclic groups, each cycle consisting of 5 or 6 atoms, which may optionally contain 1,2, or 3 additional heteroatoms, each independently selected fromN, O, or S, and the carbon and nitrogen atoms of any such ring may carry substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy, halogen, amino, monoor di C1 C6 alkylamino, nitro, Cl C6 alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted C1 C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 C6 alkenyl1 phenyl, substituted phenyl, substituted or unsubstituted phenyl Cl C6 alkyl, and substituted or unsubstituted 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic, wherein the substituent or substituents are selected from halogen, hydroxy, alkoxy, carboxy, alkyl, or phenyl.A preferred group of compounds of the present invention comprises those compounds of formula I wherein R is ethyl and n and the stylized groupEMI2.1 as defined above, and their corresponding pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters.A most preferred. group of compounds comprises those compounds of formula I wherein R is ethyl, n is zero and the stylized groupEMI2.2 represents a monocyclicN containing heterocyclic group, and their corresponding pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters.For the purposes of the present application, the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those salts of the alkali and alkaline earth metals, of these the sodium and potassium salts are preferred. The term pharma ceutically acceptable esters refers to the esters which are known in the bicyclic ss lactam antibiotic art, such as the cephalosporins and penicillins, to be effective as pharmaceutically acceptable esters.Among the suitable esters there are those esters which derive from the carboxylic acids I by replacing the carboxyl group with a COOR1 group wherein R1 stands for one of the following groups straight or branched alkyl having from 1 to. 6 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, t butyl and the like, alkanoyloxyalkyl wherein the alkanoyloxy portion is straight or branched and. has 1. to 6 carbon atoms and the alkyl portion. has 1 to 6 carbon. atoms, such as pivaloyloxymethyl halo alkyl wherein halo is chloro and the alkyl portion is. straight or branched having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, e.g. 2,2,2 trichloroethyl aralkyl and lower alkoxy and nitro substituted aralkyl, such as benzyl, benzhydryl, trityl, o nitrobenzyl, p nitrobenzyl, p methoxybenzyl phthalidyl, dimethyl phthalidyl, benzyloxy alkyl having 8 to 10 carbon atoms such as benzyloxymethyl and benzyloxyethyl, and p nitro benzy loxyrmethyl. The compounds of the present invention may have the cis or trans geometry about the Flactam, that is to say that the hydrogen atoms at C S and C 6 may lie cis or trans to each other.Formula I above therefore encompasses either mixtures of the optically active trans or cis isomers or the single optically active components. In most cases however the antibacterial activity of the end carbapenem antibiotics and their inhibitory activity against ss lactamases is tied to the trans configuration therefore a preferred group of compounds of formula I includes those compounds in which the hydrogen atoms at C S and C 6 have trans stereochemistry. The compounds of the present invention can be easily prepared by the process which is schematically represented in the following Chart I CHART IEMI4.1 In the first step of the process described in Chart I, the bicyclic ketoester of formula II, wherein R is as defined above and the COOR1 group represents a cleavable ester group or a pharmaceutically acceptable ester, is converted into the enol phosphate III, by reaction with diphenyl chlorophosphate The obtained intermediate, without isolation, is reacted with a suitablv selected nucleophile of formula HSCH2 CH, EMI5.1 wherein the stylized groupEMI5.2 has the same meanings as betore, and R hydrogen or an easily removable protecting group of the amino funtion.In some particular cases in fact, the heterocyclic substituent may enhance the nucleophylicity of the amino group and in order to avoid the competitive. attack of the amino group instead of the thsl group on the enol phosphate III, it is necessary to protect the amino group during the course of the reaction. This protective group, typically a benzyl or p nitrobenzylester group, may then be easily removed by hydrogenolysis. The reaction between the enrol phosphate III and the nucleophile HS CH2 CH 2 EMI5.3 affords the ester I .If desired the sulfide group can then be oxidized to sulfoxide to give the corresponding esters I .When a compound of formula I in the form of the free acid or as a corresponding salt thereof is desired, it is obtained, according to the last step described inChart I above, by catalytic deprotection of the corresponding ester of formula I or II . Of course in this case, in the starting ketoester II, R1 must be selected properly within the class of readily removable protecting groups. Suitable cleavable esters are for instance the beyl, p nitrobenzyl, benzhydryl, trytyl, t butyl and trichloroethyl esters and the like.In particular the first step reported in Chart I above is accomplished by contacting a solution of the bicyclic ketoester II in a solvent such as acetonitrile, dimethyl formamide, methylene chloride, or the like solvents with the stoichiometric amount or a slight excess of diphenyl chlorophosphate in the presence of a tertiary nitrogen base such as ethyldiisopropylamine, triethylamine or the like, to neutralize the hydrochloric acid produced during the course of the reaction. The reaction is preferably carried out at low temperatures, most preferably at a temperature comprised between about 10 C and about 0 C.In the second step of the reaction,a stoichiometric to four fold excess of the suitably selected nucleophile HS CH CH EMI6.1 is added to the reaction mixture containing the intermediate III. The reaction which is typically carried out at a temperature comprised between 30 C and 20 C, and preferably between 200C and 10 C, is accomplished in 20 minutes to 4 hours. In general the ester I thus obtained crystallizes out from the mixture during the course of the reaction and is recovered by filtration. In some cases however,it may be necessary to concentrate the reaction mixture to a smallvOlume and to 7hill it in order to complete the precipitation. The S oxidation of the compounds I to the sulfoxidesI , described in the third step, can be carried out by the common methods frequently used in the p lactam antibiotic art. For example, the ester Ii is reacted with a mild oxidizing agent which, does not substantially act on the 9 lactam skeleton. such as organic peracids, especially perbenzoic acid and m chloroperbenzoic acid, phenyldichloroiodide or sodium metaperiodate.Substituted perbenzoic acids, and in particular m chloroperbenzoic acid, are preferred Typically, the oxidation reaction is carried out in the presence of an inert organic solvent, such as lower halogenated hydrocarbons, and preferably methylene chloride or chloroform, at a low temperature, preferably comprised between 30 C and 0 C, using a stoichiometric to a 10 molar excess of the oxidizing agent to the ester I . The resulting sulfoxides are then isolated and purified by the usual methods knows per se to any skilled chemist.When a. compound of formula I is desired in the form of free acid, the R1 group is splitted off in many instances by hydrogenolysis. Said reaction can be performed by hydrogenating the corresponding esters of formula I or II in a mixture of an inert organic solvent such as dioxane, tetrahydrofuran. and the like inert organic solvents non susceptible of being hydrogenated, and a buffer having pH comprised between 6 and 9 under a hydrogen pressure of from 1 to about 4 atmospheres in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst such as for instance palladium on charcoal, platinum oxide and the like.The resulting compound of formula I is then isolated and purified by the methods which are generally used in rela ted art in isolating and purifying carboxylic acid type antibiotics.These methods are well known to any skilled chemist and there are no critical procedures to be followed in the recovery and purification of the obtained compounds.Anyway, for purposes of demonstration only,a set of standard representative operations illustrating a convenient way for isolating and purifying the end acidsI is recited herein below. After having removed the catalyst by filtration, the organic solvent is evaporated off and the aqueous solution is washed with an organic water immiscible solvent, purified by ion exhange chromatography on QAE Sephadex A 25 eluting with a. gradient of phosphate buffers pH 8 and 1.5 KC1 monitoring the fractions by HPLC, and desalted. through a column of Amberlite XAD 2 resin. The appropriate fractions are combined, evaporated to small volume, filtered on Millipore , and lyophilized to give the desired compounds in the form of their alkali metal salts.Potassium salts are generally preferred, since they appeared to be less hygroscopic than the corresponding sodium salts.The starting 9 ketoester of formula II are prepared from the corresponding azetidinyl ethanols of formula IVEMI8.1 wherein R is as defined above, through the multi step process summarized in followingChart II CHART IIEMI9.1 For the oxidation of the ethanol IV to the corresponding acid V, several different oxidizers may be employed such as for instance oxygen in the presence of a catalyst such as platinum adsorbed on carbon, the Jones reagent and permanganate however the use of aqueous potassium permanganate buffered at a pH between 4 and 9, and preferably between 6.6 and 8.5, at room temperature, is preferred.The amount of oxidizing agent used in this step can be varied widely depending on the type of oxidizing agent and the reaction conditions employed.When according to a preferred embodiment, aqueous potassium permangate is employed, the suitable amount is generally comprised between 0.7 and 1.8 mole of permanganate per mole of alkanol of formula IV. Under these conditions the reaction is generally complete in 3 to 15 hours.When the oxidation reaction, which may be.monitored by G.L.C. analysis, is complete the excess of unreacted oxidizing agent remaining in the reaction mixture is decomposed if necessary, the corresponding reduced. species or the catalyst, if any, is removed, and the resulting acid of formula V is isolated and purified by methods known per se. In the second step, the side chain of the acid is elongated by transforming it into the imidazolyl derivative and then, without isolation of the obtained intermediate, reactina it with the maanesiiiin sal t nf malonic acid mono ester of formulaEMI10.1 72 Mg The reaction easily proceeds in high yield at room temperature in a polar apric. organic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran dioxane, dimethyl sulfoxide and the like.The carbonyldiimidazoie reagent is preferably employed in a slight excess over the stoichiometric, while a two to four fold molar ratio of the malonic mono ester. mono magnesium salt to the starting acid of formula V is preferably employedThe obtained ss keto ester of formula VI is recovered from the reaction mixture by acidification and extraction with a suitable organic solvent which is then boiled off and it is submitted, as such, to the diazotransfer reaction described in the third step of ChartII.This reaction is carried out by contacting an equimolar proportion or a slight excess of p carboxybenzene sulfonylazide and the ss keto ester of formula VI in the presence of dn inert organic solvent such as acetonitrile, dimethylformamide, methylene chloride and the like, and of a tertiary organic nitrogen base. .The temperature of the reaction is generally comprised between 100C and 300C and preferably between 50C and room temperature. Finally,decomposition of the ester VII with a catalytic amount of Rh2 OAc 4, by heating the catalyst first and then slowly adding the diazo VII solution thereto, gives the bicyclic keto ester II in almost quantitative yield. The desired keto ester II is isolated and, if desired, purified, by conventional procedures readily apparent to any skilled chemist.In their turn, the azetidin ethanol derivatives of formula IV, are prepared by either of the two different methods described in our copending EuropeanPatent Application No.82101463.6 filed on February 26,1982 having the title New291actam acetic acid derivatives, the process for preparing them, their use as intermediates for l azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 ene antibiotics , which are incorporated herein by reference. Briefly, the two methods are schematically reported in the following Charts III and IV. CHART IIIEMI12.1 CHART IVEMI13.1 EMI13.2 EMI13.3 EMI13.4 According to Chart III, the enol acetate of a trans 4 substituted 2 buten l al is reacted with chiorosulfonyl isocyanate to give the 2 azetidone X which is then submitted to reductive hydrolysis affording the 2 azetidinone XI in very high yields.The azetidinone XI is then submitted to hydrogenation followed by deacetylation yielding the desired azetidinyl ethanol IV . More particularly, the formation of the enol acetate IX is achieved by reacting the aldehyde VIII with acetic anhydride in the presence of an organic or inorganic mild base such as a tertiary amine, or an alkali metal carbonate, and optionally, but not preferably, in the presence of an inert organic. solvent. The reaction proceeds. smoothly at room temperature, however sometimes it may be useful to heat the reaction mixture in order to speed up the reaction.Alternatively, the enol acetate IX may be prepared by reacting the trans 4 substituted 2 buten 1 al with isopropenyl. acetate in the presence of catalytic amounts of p toluenesulfonic acid and cupric acetate.The second step, i.e. the 2 2 cyclo addition of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate to the enol acetate, is. carried out in an inert organic solvent such as lower alkyl ethers, aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons, halogenated hydrocarbons, nitromethane, acetonitrile and the like, under inert atmosphere and keeping the temperature in the range of 200C 50C. This reaction may either be carried out in batch or, more advantageously, as a continuous processThe organic solution containing the chlorosulfonyl derivative is submitted to reductive hydrolysis conditions by treatment with water buffered at a pH of about 6 8 containing a water soluble reducing agent such as sodium sulfite.The hydrogenation of XI may be carried out in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst such as for instance Platinum or Palladium, preferably adsorbed on a carbon or asbestos inert carrier, or Nickel Raney, at a temperature of from 20 to 60 C, under a pressure ranging from the normal pressure to about 20 atm. Preferably, the reduction is carried out at room temperature and under a pressure of about 3 atmospheres using a palladium on. carbon catalyst. Solvents which may suitably be employed. in this step are those commonly employed in hydrogenation reactions such as for instance ethyl acetate, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, alcohols and the like.. Finally, desacetylation to the alcohol IV occurs with very high yields by treatment with methanol containing a base such as sodium methoxide or potassium carbonate or cyanide.The six. step synthesis reported in Chart IV begins with the base catalyzed addition of benz.yl or substituted benzyl alcohol to methyl acrylate to give the 3 benzyloxy propionic acid methyl ester XII wherein R1 may represent hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, or nitro.The addition is carried out in the presence of an inert organic solvent which does not interfere with the reaction course, such as for instance benzene, toluene, xylene, and the like, using an alkali metal lower alkoxide or hydride or a tri lower alkyl phosphine as the basic catalyst. Once the addition reaction is completed, saponification of the ester XII with aqueous sodium or potassium hydroxide. may be carried out directly on the reaction mixture deriving from the addition reaction, without separation of the ester XII being required.3 Benzyloxypropionic acid which forms is easily recovered from the reaction mixture by means of conventional procedures which involve acidification of the aqueous phase and extraction with a suitable organic solvent which is then boiled off. Reaction of the obtained 3 benzyloxypropionic acid with a halogenating agent, typically thionyl chloride, in the. presence of a catalytic amount of. dimethylformamide then affords the 3 benzyloxypropanoyl halide XIII wherein R1 is as defined above and X is chlorine or bromine.Condensation of the 3 benzyloxypropanoyl halide XIII with the magnesium salt of a malonic acid. monolower alkyl ester derivative, obtained by treating a malonic acid monolower alkyl ester derivativeEMI16.1 with a lower alkyl magnesium halide, yields the ketoester XIV . The formation of the magnesium salt is achieved by contacting the malonic acid monolower alkyl ester derivative with the Grignard reagent R MgX wherein R is a lower alkyl group and X is chlorine, bromine or iodine in the presence of an inert organic solvent selected from those commonly employed in the Grignard reactions.Once the salt is formed, 3 benzyloxypropanoyl halide is gradually added while keeping the temperature between about 100C and the room value. By pouring the reaction mixture in aqueous mineral acids, extracting with an organic solvent immiscible with water, and evaporating off the extracting solvent, the keto ester XIV is recovered. If desired, the raw product XIV thus obtained may be purified by means of the usual techniques or it can be used as such in the reductive amination step that leads to the amine derivative XV .In this reductive amination, the carbonyl compound XIV is treated with a large excess of ammonia, op tionally in the form of its acetate, in the presence of a suitable reducing agent.Sodium cyanoborohydride is a particularly preferred reducing agent, however. other reducing agents can be used instead of. sodium cyanoborohydride, among them hydrogen and. a hydrogenation catalyst and sodium borohydride. The reaction which proceeds smoothly at room temperature and in alcoholic solvents, is preferably carried out at a pH of about 4.5 6.0 for instance by addition of glacial acetic acid. Acidification of the reaction mixture with concentrated hydrochloric acid, filtration of the ammonium chloride which separates, and concentration of the filtrate to dryness affords a crude residue from which the compound XV may be recovered by conventional purification procedures which are entirely familiar to any skilled chemist.Conversion of the amine derivative XV to the lactam XVI is achieved by treating the amine XV with at least two equivalents, and preferably three equivalents, of a Grignari reagent, R MgX , wherein R is a lower alkyl group and X is chlorine, bromine or iodine, or a lithium reagent R Li wherein Rf stands for an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl group. The reaction is carried out in an inert, organic solvent such as for instance ethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, ben zene, toluene, xylene and the like, and generally takes from 2 to 4 hours to be completed. The reactants are brought into contact at low temperature, preferably comprised between 30 and 5 C, and most preferably between 5 and 5 C, then the reaction proceeds at room temperature. Once the reaction is complete, diluted mineral acid is added at low temperature to give a final acid pH, preferably a final pH of about. 3, and the ss lactam XVI is extracted with a suitable organic solvent immiscible with water. The compound XVI which is recovered by evaporating off the extracting solvent may then be purified by con ventional. procedures such as fractional distillation or chromatography or both techniques. Finally catalytic debenzylation of thev3 lactam XVI , carried out according to the usual procedures known in chemistry, gives the alcohol IV . Preferably depro tection is achieved by using hydrogen and a hydrogena tion catalyst, such as palladium adsorbed on carbon, in acetic acid and in the presence of a catalytic amount of a strang acid such as trifluoroacetic, sulfuric or hydrochloric acid. All the reaction steps outlined in Charts I and II proceed with retention of the configuration of the carbon atoms numbered 5 and 6 in the 4 lactam structureEMI19.1 Thus, when starting from the trans or cis racemates of the alcohol IV or acid V , the trans or cis, racemates of the end product I are obtained, and when starting from a single trans or cis enantiomer of the alcohol IVY or acid V , one of the trans or cis enantiomer I is obtained wherein the hydrogen atoms at the 5 and 6 positions have the same absolute configuration of the carbon atoms indicated with 5 and 6 in the starting alcohol. or acid.Separation of the cis trans mixture into the couples of cis and trans isomers is generally carried out at the z2 lactam enol acetate XI stage, when the process described in Chart III is employed for preparing the alcohol IV or at the acid V stage when the couples of cis and trans isomers are s.eparated by crystallization from ethyl acetate.Moreover, when a single cis or trans enantiomer is desired, the cis or trans racemate of the acid V thus obtained, is then separated into the single optically active components by means of conventional procedures known in chemistry to this purposes, which involve reaction with an optically active base, separation of the diastereoisomeric salts which form b fractional crystallization or preparative HPLC, and separate restoration of the free acids. Among the optically active bases which may suitably be employed in this separation, there are oxyphene, dehydroabiethylamine, brucine, rosine, cinconine, efn conidine,. quinine, ephedrine and the like. Alternativelly, differential absorption techniques, using column packed with chirps absorbents, may suitably be employed in this separation.The reactionParts of the startingJ5 ketoester, i.e., the cysteamine derivatives. of formulaEMI20.1 wherein R is hydrogen which are generally novel compounds, can be easily prepared by the method outlined in the following Chart V CHART VEMI20.2 Briefly the above method consists in acylating anoQamino heterocyclic compound with a suitable acylating agent of formulaEMI20.3 wherein R2 is a protecting group of the nction which can be easily removed under the conditions employed in step B for the reduction of the amidic carbonyl group typicallyEMI20.4 group, and X represents a chlorine or bromine atom or a hydroxy group, and then reducing the amidic carbonyl group and simulta fleously splitting off the R2 blocking group.As for the acylation step, the reaction is carried out in the presence of a polar aprotic organic solvent such as methylene chloride, chloroform, dimethylsulfoxide, tetrahydrofuran and the like solvents, using equimolar amounts of the two reactants or a slight excess of the C aminoheterocyclic compound.When X represents a hydroxy group, the reaction is made to proceed in good yields at room temperature by the use of coupling agents such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimideN,N carbonyldiimidazole and the like agents, and preferably dicyclohexylcarbodiimide.When an acyl halide is employed X is chlorine or bromine , the reaction is carried out in the presence of a hydrogen halide acceptor agent to block the hydrohalid acid which forms during the reaction. Among the suitable hydrogen halide acceptor, tertiary organic nitrogen bases, such as triethylamine, diisopropylethyl amine, pyridine, picoline and the like, are preferred.When an acyl halide is employed, owing to the higher reactivity of this species, the reaction condition must be more carefully controlled. In particular, when using an acyl halide, the temperature of the reaction is generally kept between about 100C and 10 C and preferably in the range 0 5OC. The intermediate substituted mercaptoacetylamino heterocycle is then recovered by the usual procedures and converted into the desired ethanethiol derivative through reduction of the amidic carbonyl group and of the thiol protecting group.The reductive step is carried out with ThiAlH4 or by catalytic hydrogenation, and preferably with LiAlH4 because high temperatures and pressure are generally required for the catalytic hydrogenation.In particular, reduction with LiAlH4 is easily carried out by mixing the intermediate substituted mercaptoacetylamino heterocycle dissolved in an anhydrous inert organic solvent, typically tetrahydrofuran, with a 3 fold molar amount and preferably a slight excess over the 3 fold amount of the reducing agent suspended in the same solvent. The reaction which smoothly proceeds at temperatures which are initially low, generally comprised between 10 C and 5 C, and then increase to room temperature, takes from 1 2 to 3 hours to be complete.The excess of reducing agent is then decomposed by the addition of diluted mineral acids and the obtained cysteamine derivative is recovered from the reaction mixture by the usual methods which are entirely familiar to the skilled chemist. When for the reasons seen above, it is necessary to protect the amino group, the cysteamine derivative obtained according to the reaction scheme reported in Chart V, is reacted with at least a double molar amount of a suitable protective agent to give the corresponding compound wherein both the mercapto and the amino groups are protected. Then the free thiol group is restored by selective removal of the mercapto protecting group with ammonia in methanol.Analogously, when in addition or alternatively to the amino group , other nucleophilic groups present in the molecule must be protected, the same procedure can be followed but using the proper molar amount of the protective agent.The compounds of formula I according to the present invention as well as. their pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters have valuable antibiotic activity against various gram positive and gram negative bacteria.The antibacterial spectrum in vitro of some representative compounds of the present invention is reported in Table I below. TABLE I MIC g ml ORGANISM 21 22 23 24 25 26 27S. aureus ATCC 6538 0.012 0.1 0.1 0.1 n.d. 0.1 1.6S. aureus Smith 0.05 0.2 0.1 0.8 0.1 0.4 0.1. 0.1 3.1S. pyogenes c 203 SKF 13400 n.d. n.d. 0.05 0.1 0.025 0.05 0.8S. pyogenes c 203 ISM 0.012 0.1 n.d. n.d. n.d. n.d. n.d.S. pneumoniae DC 41 0.006 0.05 0.05 0.1 0.025 0.05 1.6P. vulgaris ATCC 881 3.12 3.12 3.1 6.2 6.2 6.2 25E. coli SKF 12140 1.6 25 6.2 12.5 6.2 6.2 6.2E. cloacae 45 1.6 25 3.1 6.2 3.1 3.1 25E. cloacae P 99 1321 E 3.12 25 3.1 12.5 6.2 12.5 12.5K. aerogenes 1522 E 1.6 12.5 3.1 6.2 6.2 12.5 6.2 n.d. not determined MICs minimum inhibitory concentrations were determined in microtiter using Brain heart infusion broth Difco or Penassay broth Difco for gram positive or gram negative bacteria, respectively. S. pyogenes and S. pneu moniae were tested in Todd Merwitt broth Difco . The inoculum was overnight cultures diluted to obtain 2 or or 10 CFU ml respectively in the case of gram positive or gram negative strains.The MIC was defined as the lowest concentration of antibiotic which presented visible growth after overnight incubation at 370C. The compounds of the present invention can effectively be employed as the active ingredients of antimicrobial preparations used in human and veterinary medicine for the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases caused by gram positive and gram negative bacteria which are iusceptible to the active ingredient.The compounds of the present invention can be administered orally, topically or parenterally. Depending on the route of administration, these compounds can be formulated into various dosage forms. Preparations for oral administration may be in the form of capsules, tablets, liquid solutions or suspension. As known in the art the capsules and tablets may contain,in addition to the active ingredient,conventional excipients such as diluents, e.g. lactose, calcium phosphate sorbitol and the like, lubricants, e.g. magnesium stearate, talc, polyethylene glycol, binding agents, e.g. polyvinylpyrrolidone, gelatin, sorbitol, tragacanth, acacia, flavouring agents, and acceptable disintegrating and wetting agents.The liquid preparations generally in the form of aqueous or oily solutions or suspensions, may contain conventional additives such as suspending or disperding agents. For topical. use the compounds of the present invention may also be prepared in suitable forms for absorption through the mucous membranes of the nose and throat or bronchial tissues and may conveniently take the form of liquid sprays or inhalants, lozenges, or throat paints. For medication.of the eyes or ears, the preparation may be presented in liquid or semi solid form. Topical applications may be formulated in hydrophobic or hydrophilic bases as ointments, creams, lotions, paints, or powders.Compositions for injection may take such forms as suspensions, solutions, or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending, stabilizing and or dispersing agents.Alternatively, the active ingredient may be in powder form for reconstitution, at the time of delivery, with a suitable vehicle, such as sterile water.The amount of active principle to be administered depends on various factors such as the size and condition of the subject to be treated the route and frequency of administration, the particular compound employed and the causative agent involved, The compounds of the present invention are generally effective at a daily dosage comprised between about 5 and about 500 mg of active ingredient per Rg of body weight, preferably divided in 2 to 4 administrations per day.Particularly desirable compositions are those prepared in the form of dosage units containing from about 30 to about 1500 mg per unit.Besides their activity as medicaments, the compounds of the present invention can be used as bactericides in industrial applications, e.g. preservatives of food, disinfectants and in other industrial systems where control of bacterial growth is desired.The following examples further illustrate the present invention but in no way they have to be interpreted as a limitation to the scope thereof. Preparation of the starting materialsA Preparation. of the bicyclic ketoesters of formula II.Example 1Trans 6 ethyl 3,5 dioxo 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 2 carboxylic acid, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester II R CH3 CH2 EMI29.1 a Preparation. of l,3 hexadien l ol acetate Chart I IVR ethyl To a mixture of trans 2 hexenal 84.4 g Q.86 mole and acetic anhydride 102 g, l mole 8 g 0.065 mole of 4 dimethylaminopyridine and 105 g 1.04 mole of triethylamine are added. The mixture is heated to 800C for two hours and then, after cooling at room temperature , is added with 200 ml of chloroform. The organic. layer is washed with two portions of 100 ml of ice water and then with 30 ml of aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The chloroform layer is dried over MgSO4. Evaporation of the solvent under vacuum yields a residue which is distilled at 800C 60 mmHg.. Yield 106 g N.M.R. and I.R. spectra confirm the assigned structure. The product is a mixture of four isomers containing more than 65 of the A 3,4 E isomers. b Preparation of 4 2 acetyloxy ethenyl 3 ethyl 2 azeti dinone Chart I, VI R ethyl 1,3 Hexadien l ol acetate 105 g 0.75 mole is dissolved in 140 ml ethyl ether under argon atmosphere at 15OC. To this solution, chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 126 g 0.984 mole in ethyl ether 126 ml is added under stirring. Onca the addition is complete, stirring at OOC is maintained for 3 hours and then the Solution is dripped into a mixture of 225 g 1.75 mole of sodium sulfite and 375 g 2.15 mole of potassium hydrogen phosphate in 1100 ml of water and 900 ml of ethyl ether.The mixture is stirred for 45 minutes on cooling with ice and adding solid bicarbonate to maintain the pH value at 6. The organic phase is separated and the aqueous layer is extracted with two 400 ml portions of ether. The combined organic layers are dried over magnesium sulfate and then evaporated to dryness under vacuum.The residue is suspended in 700 ml of petroleum ether and the mixture is stirred for 16 hours.. After decantation, the organic solvent is removed and the residue i s dried under reduced pressure yielding 46 g of a product which boils at 1200C O.l mmHg. Gas chromatographic assay showswthat the product consists of. a mixture of four isomers trans Z , trans E , cis Z , cis E . N.M.R.and I.R spectra confirm thesassigned structure. The single. components may be separated through preparative HPLC. The ratio of the desired trans isomers pair in the mixture is of about 80 .c Preparation of 3 ethyl 4 2 hydroxy ethyl 2 azeti dine Chart I, II R ethyl The crude 4 2 acetyloxy ethenyl 3 ethyl 2 azetidinone obtained according to step b above 46 g is dissolved in 600 ml of ethyl acetate and, after addition of 1.6 g of 20 palladium on carbon catalyst, is hydrogenated at room temperature with a pressure of 3 atmospheres of hydrogen gas in a Parr autoclave. After three hours, the autoclave is discharged and the catalyst is filtered off. Evaporation of the solvent yields 46.5 g of 4 2 acetyloxy ethy17 3 ethyl 2 azetidinone which boils at 1100C 0.03 mmHg. Gas chromatographic analysis of the product shows that.the trans and cis isomers are. in a 8 2 ratio.The isomers can be separated by preparative HPLC . The I.R. and N.M.R. data are in agreement with the assigned structure.The crude 4 2 acetylox.y ethyl 3 ethyl 2 azetidinone is stirred with 9.7 g of potassium carbonate in 880 ml of absolute methanol at room temperature for 30 minutes.The mixture is neutralized with acetic acid and then evaporated to dryness at 50 C under vacuum. The residue is suspend.ed in a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride and the mixture is extracted with four 150 ml portions of ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers are dried over MUGS04 and then evaporated to dryness yielding 34 g of 3 ethyl 4 2 hydroxy ethyl 2 azeti dinone which contains 80 of the trans isomer estimated by N.M.R. .The I.R. and N.M.R. data confirm the assigned structure.d Preparation of trans i 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidineace tic acid, I.The crude 3 ethyl 4 2 hydroxy ethyl 2 azetidinone 34 g 0.237 mole obtained according to step c is added to 63 g 0.394 mole of potassium permanganate and 79 g 0..59 mole of potassium dihydrogen phosphate in 870 ml of water. The mixture is maintained under stirring at 15 C for 22 hours, then 220 ml of a saturated solution of sodium metabisulfite are added thereto maintaining the value of the pH at about 3 by the gradual addition of 220 ml of 10 sulfuric acid. The mixture is stirred under cooling at 5 C until a clear solution is obtained about 30 minutes , then, after saturation with ammonium sulfate, it is extracted with four 250 ml portions of ethyl acetate.The organic extracts are pooled together and dried over MgS04. Concentration of the ethyl acetate solution to 100 ml and cooling overnight in a refrigerator gives a crystalline precipitate which is recovered by filtration.. Yield 16.43 g of trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidineacetic acid which melts at 99 1010C. Concentration of the mother liquors yields 2.23 g of the same product.e Preparation of trans 3 ethyl 4 ss dioxo 2 azeti dinbutanoic acid, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester XIIIR CH3CH2 R4 CH2EMI32.1 A mixture of 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidineacetic acid 21 g , l,l carbonyldiimidazole 24.32 g and anhydrous tetrahydrofuran t360 ml is stirred for 2 1 hours at room temperature, then mono p nitrobenzylmalonate magnesium salt 81.1 g is added and stirring is continued for 19 hours at room temperature. The mixture is poured into 5 HC1 600 ml and extracted with methylene chloride four 450 ml portions .The organic extracts are combined, washed with 10 KHC03 two 200 ml portions with brine 200 ml and dried over MgSO4. The solvent is removed under vacuum and the obtained residue is triturated with diethyl ether 60 ml , filtered and dried in vacuo at room temperature yielding the desired keto ester XIII .R CH3CH2 31.6 g which melts at 88 900C.Preparation. of mono p nitrobenzylmalonate magnesium salt.1 Step The. mono para nitrobenzylmalonate has been prepared by direct esterification of malonic acid with para nitro benzyl chloride according to the following procedures A solution of dry malonic acid. 104 g, 1 mole in dimethylformamide 290 ml is treated at 15 20 C with triethylamine 1w9. ml, 1 mole . Under stirring, a solution of para nitrobenzyl chloride 171.6 g, 1 mole in dimethylformamide 400. ml is added, follow end by solid potassium iodine 25 g, 0.15 moles . After three days under stirring, the reaction mixture is diluted with methylene chloride 1 1 and slowly treated with 10 solution of potassium bicarbonate 2 1 . The aqueous phase is acidified with 18 hydrochloric acid 420 ml and the precipitate is filtered by suction, washed with water and dried to give 70 g 29.3 of. mono para nitrobenzylmalonate M.p. 99 101 C. 2 Step A dry 3 1 flask equipped with a. mechanical stirred is charged with 145.85 g of mono p nitrobenzylmalonate 0.61 moles and 1365 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran. After 15 minutes 35.4 g of magnesium ethoxide. 0.31 moles are added and the reaction mix turet is stirred for two hours. The resulting clear solution is then added in. one hour to 2 liters of ethyl ether kept at 0 C by an ice bath. After a further hour at 0 C the resulting solid is filtered by suction and dried in vacuo to give 144 g 94 of magnesium mono p nitrobenzylmalonate.f Preparation of trans alpha diazo 3 ethyl 4,ss dioxo 2 azetidinebutanoic acid, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester XIV R CH3CR2 R4 CH2 EMI34.1 To a mixture of the keto ester obtained in step e above 30 g , p carboxybenzenesulfonylazide 22.5 g and acetonitrile 300 ml , cooled at 5 C, triethylamine 42 ml is dropwise added over a period of fifteen minutes.When. about. one half of the triethylamine has been added, a clear solution. results from which a white solid soon precipitates. The temperature is then allowed to rise at about 20 C in half an hour. The white solid is filtered and whased with acetonitrile 50 ml . The combined solutions are evaporated in vacuo at room teperature and the residue is dissolved in methylene chloride 300 ml , washed with 8 NaHCO3 100 ml and. with water 100 ml .The organic phase is dried over MgS04 and concentrated in vacuo. to a syrupy consistence. Diethyl ether 250 ml is slowly added under magnetical stirring and stirring is continued for one hour at OOC. The product is collected by suction filtration and dried in vacuo at room temperature yielding 29.16 g of the desired diazo keto ester XIV R CH3CH2 which melts at 115 180C. g Preparation of trans 6 ethyl 3,7 dioxo 1 aza bicyclo 3.2.07heptan 2 carboxylic ac rid, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester XV R CH3CH2 R4 CH2EMI35.1 A solution of trans alpha diazo 3 ethyl 4,ss dioxo 2 azetidinebutanoic acid, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester 3Q g prepared as. described. in step f above in 1,2 dichioroethane 350 ml is dripped into a solution of rhodium acetate 0.3 g in 1,2 dichloroethane 50 ml heated to the reflux temperature.The mixture is refluxed for additional 30 minutes while the progress of the reaction is followed by the nitrogen evolution and thin layer chromatography on silicagel plates eluting with ethyl acetate hexane 6 4. The reaction mixture is then cooled at 20 C, washed with water two 100 ml portions , dried over MgS04 and evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure.The residue is di.ssolved in methylene chloride 20 ml and the product is precipitated by slow addition of diethyl ether 150 ml under magnetic stirring and cooling.. After one hourr the solid. is collected by suction and dried in vacuo at room temperature yielding 25.7 g 91 of trans i 6 ethyl 3,7 dioxo l azabicyclo 3.2.07heptan 2 carboxylic acid, 4 p nitrophenyl methyl ester M.p. 106 1090C. Example 2 a Trans 6 ethyl 3,7 dioxo 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 2 carboxylic acid 4 flitrophenyl methyl ester.M.p. 79 800C, alpha D 2310 C 1 in EtOH9, alpha D 224.10 C 1 in CHC13 .b Trans 6 ethyl 3,7 dioxo 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 2 carboxylic acid 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester.M.p. 79 81 C, alpha D 228.20 C 1 in CHCl3 .The above compounds are separately obtained by following the procedures decribed in Example 1 above but resolving the trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidineacetic acid obtained in step d into the single enantiomers by the method. illustrated. below and separately performing steps e , f , and q , on the individual corresponding enantiomers.Resolution of trans i 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acid with dextro and laevo oxyphene. a Salt of trans 3 ehtyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acid with laevo oxyphene. Trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acid 15.7 g, 0.1 mole is added to a solution of 1 oxyphene 28.35 g, 0.1 mole. in ref fluxing acetone 176 ml . The resulting solution is allowed to stand at room temperature for four hours, at about 3 0C for 24 hours and then at about 25 C for 16 hours. The precipitate which forms is recovered by suction filtration, washed with ice cooled acetone and dried under vacuum at 40 C for one hour to give 11.15 g of salt characterized by an alpha D 4. C 1 in CHCl3 . This salt is crystallized twice from acetone 45 and 40 ml respectively keeping the solutions at room temperature for one hour, then at about 3 C for four hours. and finally at about 25 C for 16 hours. The salt of trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acid with laevo oxyphene thus obtained 7.04 g has m.p. 124 24.50C and D 4.3 C 1 in CHCl3 . b Trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acidTo a stirred mixture of the above salt 7.04 gj, water 18 ml and diethyl ether 40 ml , 1N NaOH 15.8 ml is gradually added to bring the pF to about 8.3. The aqueous phase is separated and extracted with diethyl ether two 20 ml portions . The ethereal layers are washed with water two 10 ml portions , dried over Na2SO4 and concentrated to dryness yielding 1 oxyphene 4.2 g, 94.2 The combined aqueous layers are saturated with NH4 2S04 40 g , stirred for a few minutes and acidified to pH 3.7 with 2N H 2S04 about 8 ml .The mixture is extracted with ethyl acetate 180 ml followed by four 60 ml portions and the combined extracts are dried over MgSO4 concentrated to about 15 ml at room temperature, under vacuum, and kept at about 25 C for 18 hours. The solid is collected by filtration and dried under vacuum at room temperature to give 2.32 g of trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acid. M.p. 113 15 C alpha D I60. C 1 in EtOH Enantiomeric purity 98 . By carrying out the resolution essentially as described above but crystallizing the salt of trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acid with l oxyphene once more from acetone, pure trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidin acetic acid characterized by alpha d 16.6 C 1in EtOH is obtained.c Crude trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acidThe mother liquors deriving from the salification step described in a above are evaporated to dryness and the crude iaevo acid is recovered by following the method described in b above. The ethyl acetate solution is distilled to dryness under vacuum at room temperature to give 10.45 g of crude laevo acid. alpha D 3.81 C 1 in EtOH . d Salt of trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acid with dextro oxypheneThe crude laevo acid obtained in c above 10.45 g, 66.5 mmole is added to a solution of dextro oxyphene 11.82 g, 66.5 mmole in hot acetone .117 ml . This solution is allowed to stand at room temperature for 4 hours at about 4 C for 18 hours. The solid which precipitates is recovered by filtration and dried under vacuum at 40 C for one hour to give 8.85 g of a salt characterized by m.p. 120 21 C and alpha D 2.44 C 1 in CHCl3 . This salt is crystallized. twice from acetone 44 and 30 ml respectively keeping the solutions at room temperature for 4 hours and at about 30C for 18 hours.The salt of trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidin acetic acid with d oxyphene, thus obtained, 5.45 g has m.p 124 250C and alpha D 4.350 C 1 in CHCl3 .e Trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acidThe free acid is obtained from the corresponding d oxyphene salt 5.45g by following the procedure described in b above. Yield 1.79 g of trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acid characterized by a m.p. of 113 15 C and alpha D 16 C 1 in EtOH .Enantiomeric purity Pure trans 3 ethyl 4 oxo 2 azetidinacetic acid recovered after a further crystallization of the d oxyphene salt prepared in d above from acetone, has alpha D 16. 6 C 1 in EtOH . Example 3 Cis 6 ethyl 3,7 dioxo l azabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 2 carboxylic acid, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester.M.p. 128 C.The. compound of the title is obtained by following substantially the same procedure as in Example 1 above but separating the mixture of trans and cis isomers of 4 2 acetyloxy ethenyl 3 ethyl 2 azetidinone obtained in step b by the method described below and performating the following steps e to g , on the couple of cis isomers.a Cis 4 2 acetyloxy ethenyl 3 ethyl 2 aze tidinone.The mixture of four isomers of 4 2 acetyloxy ethenyl 3 ethyl 2 az.etidinone 40 g , 2.18 x 10 1 mole ob tained in Example I b , is taken up with peroxide free isopropyl ether 40 ml and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for about 4 hours and allowed to stand at about 3 0C for 8 hours. The solid is recovered by filtrationand dried under vacuum to yield 4.4 g 11 of the cis isomers. pair. M.p. 1020C.The N. M.R. and I.R. spectra confirm the assigned structure. B Preparation of the cysteamine derivativesExample 4 2 2 Thiazolyramino ethanethiol. a Acylating stepThionyl chloride 79.9 g, 0.67 moles was added drop wise at room temperature to 2 acetylmercaptoacetic acid 82 g, 0.61 moles , followed by a catalytic amount of dimethylformamide 0.5 ml . After the. addition was completed, the reaction mixture was stirred at 500C for 30 and at 1000C for 10 minutes.. The reflux condenser was replaced with a Liebig condenser and the product was distilled at 90 20 mm. The yield was 70.5 g 75.6 Z Aminothiazole 10 g, 0.1 moles was. dissolved. in pyridine 50 ml . and dry methylene chloride 100 ml in a. 50Q ml four necked flask placed on a magn.e.tic stirrer.A solution of acetylmercaptoacetyl chloride 15.2 g, 0.1 moles in methylene chloride 50.ml was slowly added to the sirred solution, keeping the temperature at 0 5 . After the addition was complete, the reaction mixture was stirred on an ice bath for one hour, then was poured. in 600 ml of cold water.. The solid product which separates was filtered in vacuo, washed with methylene chloride and dried to give 14.7 g of 2 acetylmercaptoacetyl amino thiazole.M.p. 177 178 C.The combined organic phases were washed with dil. NaHCO3 H20 and dried Mg.S04 The solvent was distilled in vacuo and the residue was triturated with ethyl ether to give additional 2.9 g of the desired product. M.p. 177 178 0C. The total yields was 17.65 g 81.7 . The starting 2 acetylmercaptoacetic acid was prepared adding acetyl chloride 187.5 g, 2.39 mole dropwise in 30 to 2 mercaptoacetic acid 200 g, 2.17 mole kept under stirring at room temperature. A vigorous evolution of hydrochloric acid took place. After 30 the reaction mixture was stirred at reflux for an additional hour.The cooled mixture was distilled under reduced pressure through a short 8 cm Vigreux column to give 170.38 g 58 5 of 2 acetylmercaptoacetic acid, b.p. 150 20 mm.b Reductive stepIn a 500 ml, four necked flask, purged with dry Argon, are placed 30 ml of dry THF and lithium aluminium hydride 2.64 g, 0.07 moles . The slurry was stirred at 5 while a warm solution of 2 acetylmercaptoacetyl aminothiazole 5 g, 0.023 moles in dry tetrahydrofuran 170 ml was added dropwise over an one hour period. The mixture was stirred 30 at 0 and 2 hours at room temperature, then was cooled in an ice both and decomposed by gradual addition of H2 0 40 ml followed by 8 HC1 150 ml . This mixture was extracted with diethyl ether 75 ml and the aqueous phase was neutralized with NaHCO3 sol. 300 ml .The inorganic salts were filtered, washed with methylene chloride and the filtrate was extracted with methylene chloride 3 x 200 ml .The combined organic phases were dried MgSO4 and concentrated to give 3.4 g of thiol, m.p. 66 68 . A sample was distilled in a Kugelrohr apparatus b.p. 11OOC 0.1 mmHg.Example 5 2 3 Methyl 2 pyridyl amino ethanethiol. a Acylating stepTo a stirred solution of 2 amino 3 methylpyridine 32.5 g, 0.3 moles in CH2C12 150 ml , acetylmercaptoacetic acid 37.2 g, 0.28 moles in CH2C12 200 ml was added, followed by dicyclobexylcarbodiimide, 61.3 g, 0.297 moles . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight, dicyclohexylurea was filtered in vacuo and washed with CH2C12 2 x 50 ml . The organic solution was washed with dil. NaHC03 2 x 50 ml and the basic products were extracted with 10 H2S04 4 x 70 ml .The aqueous phases were adjusted at pH 4.8 with 30 NaOH and extracted with CH2C12 100 ml plus 3 x 60 ml .The combined organic phases were washed with H20 2 x 50 ml and dried MgSO4 . The solvent was distilled in vacuo and the residue 48.15 g was crystallized from CH2C1 2 diethyl ether 0 to give 34.89 g 55.6 of pure product, m.p. 76 78 C. b Reductive stepThe reductive step was carried out exactly as described in Example 4b 66 yields . The end 2 3 methyl 2 pyridyl aminoethanethiol, distilled in a Kugelrohor has b.p. 1200C 9.05 mmHg. Examples 6a to lOa The compounds listed in Table II have been obtained by following the method described in Example 4a or 5a as indicated. TABLE IIEMI44.1 EMI44.2 tb SEP Nethod SEP SEP SEP Method SEP M.p. tb N SEP of SEP or SEP SEP Yields tb SEP No. SEP Example SEP B.p. tb SEP Example tb SEP CH3 SEP 182 1840C SEP 75 tb SEP 6a f. tb SEP 6a SEP N SEP 4a tb SEP O tb SEP 7a SEP z SEP 4a SEP 1400C O.lmmHg SEP 36 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP H3 tb SEP 8a SEP 4 SEP spa SEP 930C SEP 48 tb ctd. TABLE II ctd.EMI45.1 EMI45.2 tb Example SEP T SEP Method tb SEP No. SEP of SEP M.p. SEP Yeld tb SEP example tb SEP I tb SEP I tb SEP 9a SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP a3 SEP 1920C SEP 32 tb SEP H tb SEP lOa SEP WwH SEP S SEP a SEP 132 40C SEP 46 tb SEP H3 tb Examples 6b to lob The compounds listed in Table III below have been obtained by following the procedure in Example 4b but starting from the corresponding intermediate of Table II. TABLE IIIEMI46.1 EMI46.2 tb SEP Example SEP SEP M.p. tb No. SEP or SEP B.p. SEP SEP Ytelds tb SEP B.p. tb SEP I tb SEP . SEP SEP 3 tb SEP 800C O.05 SEP 67 tb SEP 7b SEP 0 SEP 800C O.05 SEP 67 tb SEP N SEP mmHg tb SEP CR3 tb SEP 8b SEP 52 40C SEP 97 tb a Distilled in a Kugilrohor apparatus. ctd. TABLE III ctd.EMI47.1 EMI47.2 tb SEP Example SEP i SEP M.p. SEP or SEP SEP Yield tb SEP No. SEP N SEP B.p. tb SEP N tb 9 SEP b SEP H3 SEP SEP b tb SEP 10 SEP b SEP I SEP CH3 SEP b tb SEP 1CH3 tb SEP CR3 tb a Distilled in a Kugelrohor apparatus b These intermediates, being unstable, were used at once in the next step described in Examples 11 and 12. Due to the enhanced nucleophylicity of the 2 amino imidazole moiety, the compounds of examples 9b and lOb could not be used directly in the reaction scheme of Chart I but a further protection was necessary. In particular as reported in Chart VI below, the substitu te a imidazolyl cysteamines of examples 9b and lob were treated with p nitrobenzylchloroformiate in aceto nitrile and in the presence of di isopropylethylamine and dimethylaminopyridine to give the bis acylated derivatives.Selective removal of the mercapto protecting group with ammonia in methanol, afforded the protected R imidazolyl cysteamine which were used in the conden sation with the enol phosphate IIIEMI48.1 Example 11 2 3, 4 dimethyl 2 imidazolyl N p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl amino ethanethiol.A solution of freshly prepared 2 3,4 dimethyl 2 imida zolylamino ethanethtol example lOb 0.83 g, 4.84 mmoles , diisopropyiethylamine 2.07 ml, 12.09 moles and 4 dimethylaminopyridine 0.146 g, 1.209 mmoles in dry acetonitrile 15 ml is poured into a four neck 100 ml flask, purged with dry Argon. A solution of p nitrobenzylcarbonate 2.08 g, 9,68 mmoles in dry acetonitrile 8 ml is then added thereto at 0 C over a period of five minutes.After 30 minutes at 0 C and 3 hours at room temperature, the solution is diluted with methylene chloride 60 ml and washed with 3 HC1 30 ml , water 20 ml and 8 sodium bicarbonate. solution 20 ml . After drying over MgS04, the solvent is removed in vacuo and the residue is purified by chromatography on silica gel 30. g eluting with methylene chloride containing from 0 to 20 of ethyl acetate. The oily compound thus obtained is dissolved in methanol 60 ml containing 6 of ammonia and theobtained solution is stirred at 40 50 C for three hours under Argon.The solvent is then evaporated off in vacuo leaving the compound of the title as an oily residue.Example 12 2 4 methyl 2 imidazolyl N p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl amino7ethanethiol. This compound is obtained by following substantially the same procedure of Example 11 but starting from the 2 4 methyl 2 imidazolylamlno ethanethiol of Example 9 b . Preparation of the compounds of the inventionExample i3 Trans 6 ethyl 7 oxo 2 2 2 thiazolyl amino ethyl thiO l azabicyclo 3.2 0. hept 2 en 2 carboxylic acid, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester.A solution of trans 6 ethyl 3,7 dioxo 1 azabicyclo 3.2. O.7heptan 2 carboxylic acid, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester 0.58 g, 1.74 mmoles in dry acetonitrile 3 ml was cooled at 0 C and treated with diisopropylethylamine 0.495 g, 3.83 mmoles followed, after 5 , by diphenylchlorophosphate 0.514 g, 1.91 mmoles . The mixture was stirred at 0 C for 20 TLC Silicagel, CH2Cl2 AcOEt 95 5 , then a solution of 2 2 thiazolylamino ethanthiol 0.29 g, 1.82 mmoles in acetonitrile 2 ml was added dropwise over 10 . After 1 hour at 0 C, the solid product which separates was filtered in vacuo, washed with diethyl ether and dried to give 0.5 g 60.9 of the thiazolyl derivative, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester m.p. 120 130 C. lH tZMR CDC13 i 1.07 t, 3H,JCH3 CH3 7 Hz., CH3 , 1.87 m, 2H, CH2 CH3 , 3.0 3.4 m, 5H, CH2 4 , CH2 12 , CH 6 , 3.63 t, 2H, JCH2 11 CH2 12 6.5 Hz., CH2 11 , 3.95 dt, 1H, JH 5 H 6 2.5 Hz, JH 5 CH2 4 9Hz, cH 5 , 5.25 5.52 2d, NH, Jgem 14 Hz, CH2O , 5.58 b, 1H, NH , gem 2 6.54 d, 1H, JH1 H5 3.5, H5 , 7.13 d, 1H, H, , 7.69, d, 2H J ortho 9 Hz C Ar , 8.24 d, 2H, N Ar . Examples 14 to 21The compounds of Examples 14 to 21,have been prepared by following substantially the same procedure described in Example l3 but using the proper cysteamine derivatives. The cysteamine derivatives used for preparing the compounds of Examples 14 and 15 are known products . T A B L E A U IV EMI52.1 EMI52.2 SEP U.V. CH3OH SEP I.R. SEP CDCl3 SEP cm 1 tb Example SEP SEP m.p. SEP tb SEP No. SEP R SEP N SEP C SEP fields SEP max SEP E1cm1 SEP NH SEP C O SEP C O SEP C C SEP NO2 tb SEP lactam SEP ester SEP C N tb SEP 244 SEP 427.5 tb SEP 14 SEP H SEP SEP 113 117a SEP 88 SEP 268 SEP 252.5 SEP 3460 SEP 1774 SEP 1700 SEP 1600 SEP 1523 tb SEP N SEP 315 SEP 322.5 SEP 1571 SEP 1350 tb SEP 1550 tb SEP N SEP 227 SEP 444 SEP 1605 SEP 1520 tb SEP 15 SEP H SEP SEP 84 85a SEP 65 SEP 259 SEP 247 SEP 3455 SEP 1773 SEP 1700 SEP 1586 tb SEP N SEP 317 SEP 277 SEP 1567 SEP 1350 tb continued..... continued..T A B L E IV EMI53.1 Example SEP R SEP N SEP m.p. SEP SEP U.V. CH3OH SEP I.R. SEP CDCl3 SEP cm 1 tb No. SEP C SEP Yield SEP max SEP Elcm1 SEP NH SEP O O SEP O O SEP O C SEP HO2 tb SEP lactam SEP ester SEP C N tb 16 SEP H SEP N O SEP 133a SEP 65 SEP 264 SEP 245 SEP 3460 SEP 1442 SEP 1700 SEP 1626 SEP 1521 tb SEP SEP 318 SEP 271 SEP 1608 tb SEP CH3 SEP 1535 a SEP 1348 tb 17 SEP H SEP N CH3 SEP 132b SEP 47 SEP 246 SEP 400 SEP 1601 SEP 1521 tb SEP 313 SEP 337 SEP 3460 SEP 1775 SEP 1700 SEP 1550 SEP 1350 tb SEP 1500 tb 18 SEP H SEP N SEP 105 113a SEP 90 SEP 240 SEP 409 SEP 1600 SEP 1522 tb SEP SEP 267 SEP 275 SEP 3466 SEP 1772 SEP 1700 SEP 1585 tb SEP CH3 SEP 309 SEP 321 SEP 1550 SEP 1350 tb SEP 1500 tb 19 SEP H SEP N SEP 135 145a SEP 92 SEP 245 SEP 415 SEP 1615 SEP 1522 tb SEP SEP 268 SEP n.d. SEP 3465 SEP 1775 SEP 1700 SEP 1550 SEP 1350 tb SEP CH3 SEP 315 SEP 288 SEP 1490 tb continued... T A B L E A U IV EMI54.1 Example SEP R SEP N SEP m.p. SEP SEP U.V. CH3OH SEP I.R. SEP CDCl3 SEP cm 1 tb No. SEP C SEP Yield SEP max SEP Elcm1 SEP NH SEP O O SEP O O SEP O C SEP HO2 tb SEP lactam SEP ester SEP C N tb 20 SEP H SEP N SEP 134 5 SEP a SEP 17 SEP 265 SEP 409 SEP 1780 SEP 1720 tb SEP N CH3 SEP 316 SEP 189 SEP 1610 SEP 1530 tb SEP SEP 1580 SEP 1350 tb SEP COOPNB SEP 1560 tb 21 SEP C OPNB SEP N SEP 268 SEP 314 tb SEP SEP N CH3 SEP 150 2 SEP a SEP 12 SEP 318 SEP 184 SEP 3420 SEP 1780 SEP 1738 SEP 1610 SEP 1530 tb SEP O SEP SEP 1588 SEP 1350 tb SEP CH3 tb a Crystallized from methylene chloride diethyl ether b Crystallized from ethanol c Crystallized from acetonitrile Example 22 Trans 6 ethyl 7 oxo 2 2 2 pyridylamlna ethyl thio 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 en 2 carboxylic acidS oxide, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester.A solution. of the compound. of Example 14 0.45 g, 0.96 mmoles in dry CH2Cl2 25 ml was chilled to 30 and m chloroperbenzoic acid 0.182 g, 1.06 mmoles dissolved in CH2C12 15 ml was added with stirring in 30 .The reaction was monitored by t.l.c. toluene acetone 1 1 and after 1 hour at 30 , when oxidation was completed the solution was washed twice with 1 15 M phosphate buffer pH 8 and dried Mg S04 . Evaporation of the solvent afforded 0.45 g of crude, rather unstable solfoxide, m.p. 135 140 dec.1H NMR CDCl3 104 105 2t, 3H, JCH2 CH2 7Hz, CH3 , 1.85 m, 2H, CH2 CH3 3.0 3.7 m, SH, CH2 4 , CH2 12 ,CH 6 , 3.8 3.9 m, 2H, CH2 11 , 4.03 4.11 2dt, 1H,JH5 H6 2.5 Hz, JH5 CH2 4 9Hz, H5 , 5.00 5.05 2t, 1H,JNH CH2 12 5.5Hz, NH , 5.1 5.5 m, 2H, CH2O , 6.43 6.45 2H3, H4, ortho 7.43 dd, 1H, H4, , 7.62 7.64 2d, 2H, J 8Hz, C Ar ortho 8.12 d, 1H, H6, , 8.25 8.26 2d, 2H, N Ar .U.V. absorbtion maxima CH3OH 242 nm E1cm1 420 , 267 nm E1cm1 259 and 290 nm E1cm1 243 I.R. main peaks in CDCl3 cm 1 3460 NH , 1787 C O ss lactam , 1720 C O ester , 1605, 1585, and 1500 C O and C N , 1525 and 1350 NO2 , 1050 S O . Example 23 Trans 6 ethyl 7 oxo 2 2 2 2 pyrimidinyl ethyl7 thio 1 azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 en 2 carboxylic acidS oxide, 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester.The compound of the title is obtained as an oily product by following the procedure described in the foregoing example but starting from the compound of. Example 15.Example 24 Trans 6 ethyl 7 oxo 2 2 2 thiazolyl amino ethyl thio l azabicyclo 3.2.0 hept 2 en 2 carboxylic acid potassium salt.A solution of the 4 nitrophenyl methyl ester of Example 13 150 mg, 0 316 mmoles in tetrahydrofuran 15 ml and potassium phosphate buffer 1 15 M.pH 8.5 15 ml, 1 moles of P043 is hydrogenated in the presence of 10 Pd. on carbon . 150 mg at room pressure and temperature for 2 hours. The catalyst is filtered on celite 1 g and washed with water 10 ml . The organic solvent is removed at 25 C 1 mm and the resulting solutions is extracted with CH2C12 10 ml , refiltered on. celite 1 g and black carbon 0.3 g , washing the cake with water 10 ml . The combined aqueous solution 30 ml, A max 300 m, 3 mg ml is kept in the refrigerator overnight, then it is charged on a column of QAE Sephadex A 25 30 ml and developed with a linear gradient between solutiorA and B total eluent 300 ml . Solution A Potassium buffer 0.01 M, pH 7.9 150 ml Solution B. 1.5 K C1 in Potassium phosphate buffer 5 mM, pH 7.9 150 ml .Each 150. drops fraction is monitored by HPLC and those containing the. product 13 t 18 pH T.7 are combined and treated with Amberlite XAD 2 10 g .This suspension is charged on a column of Amberlite XAD 2 10 g in 40 ml of potassium phosphate buffer 5 mM, pH 7.9 containing 0.5 of KCl and eluted with 1 distilled water 50 ml , 2 methanol water 1 1 100 ml , 3 methanol water 7 3 100. ml . The combined fractions are concentrated at 28 C l mm up to 10 ml, filtered on Millipore z and lyophilized to afford 54.3 mg 54 of the product, as a white solid.Examples 25 to 34The compounds listed in Table V are prepared by following essentially the same procedure as in. Example 21 but starting from. the appropriate 4 nitrophenyl methyl esters. T A B L E V EMI58.1 EMI58.2 Example SEP N SEP n SEP Yield SEP U.V. SEP HPLC SEP a SEP I.R. tb No SEP SEP max SEP E1cm1 SEP Eluent SEP b SEP Rt min SEP KBr SEP cm 1 tb 25 SEP N SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 79 SEP 237 SEP 226.5 SEP 6 4 SEP 3.00 SEP 1760, SEP 1600 tb SEP SEP 5 SEP 303 SEP 196.3 tb SEP 3 SEP 4 tb 26 SEP N SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 69 SEP 302 SEP 185 SEP 6 4 SEP 2.40 SEP 1755, SEP 1585, tb SEP SEP 5 SEP 1530 tb SEP N SEP 6 tb 17 SEP N O SEP 0 SEP 38 SEP 300 SEP 276 SEP 7 3 SEP 5.11 SEP c SEP 1755, SEP 1630, tb SEP SEP 1600, SEP 1555 tb SEP 4 SEP 5 CH3 tb 18 SEP N 6 CH3 SEP 0 SEP 30 SEP 237 SEP 352 SEP 6 4 SEP 7.00 SEP 1755, SEP 1600 tb SEP SEP 5 SEP 303 SEP 379 SEP 1515 tb SEP 3 SEP 4 tb continued...T A B L E V EMI59.1 Example SEP N SEP n SEP Yield SEP U.V. SEP HPLC SEP a SEP I.R. tb No SEP SEP max SEP E1cm1 SEP Eluent SEP b SEP Rt min SEP KBr SEP cm 1 tb 19 SEP N SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 11 SEP 238 SEP 312 SEP n.d. tb SEP SEP 5 SEP 300 SEP 330 SEP 6 4 SEP 5.88 SEP a tb SEP H3C3 SEP 2 tb 30 SEP N SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 10 SEP 298 SEP 168 SEP 6 4 SEP 1.88 SEP a SEP n.d. tb SEP SEP 5 tb SEP 3 SEP 2 tb 31 SEP N SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 8 SEP 292 SEP 113 SEP 6 4 SEP 1.55 SEP a SEP n.d. tb SEP SEP 6 tb SEP N SEP 4 tb 32 SEP N SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 25 SEP 240 SEP 310 SEP 6 4 SEP 6.35 SEP a SEP n.d. tb SEP SEP 5 SEP 303 SEP 330 tb SEP 3 SEP 4 CH3 tb continued... T A B L E V EMI60.1 Example SEP N SEP n SEP Yield SEP U.V. SEP HPLC SEP a SEP I.R. tb No SEP SEP max SEP E1cm1 SEP Eluent SEP b SEP Rt min SEP KBr SEP cm 1 tb 33 SEP N SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP n.d. SEP SEP 65 35 SEP 3.38a SEP n.d. tb SEP SEP 4 tb SEP N SEP CH3 tb SEP tb SEP H tb 34 SEP N SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 28 SEP 298 SEP 210 SEP 65 35 SEP 3.60a SEP n.d. tb SEP SEP 4 tb SEP N SEP 3 CH3 tb SEP tb SEP CH3 tb n.d. Not determined a Reverse phase HPLC analyse were performed using an Altex 110A pump equipped with a dmm i.d.x.25cm Licrosorb RP18 to m column and a PE LC15 254 m detector at a flow rate of 2 ml min.b Ratio between phosphate buffer and methanol at pH 7.5 7.8.c Determination using a H.P. 3390A Integrator. The compounds of Examples 24 to 43 show the following main peaks in their H NMR Spectra Comp. CH3 9 , t CH2 8 ,m CH2 4 CH 6 CH2 11 ,t CH 5 , d t ofExample JCH3 9 CH2 8 CH2 12 ,m JCH2 11 CH2 12 6 Hz JCH 5 CH 6 2.5 HzNo. 7Hz JCH 5 CH2 4 9Hz EMI61.1 14 1.01 1.82 2.9 3.3 3.67 4.01 6.84 d, 1H,JH4, H5, 3.5,H4, 7.26 d, 1H, H5, 25 0.98 1.75 2.8 3.2 3.58 3.84 6.73 m, 2H, H3, H5, 7.62 dd, 1H,Jorto 5.5,H4 7.95 d,1H,Jortho 5.5,H4, .26 0.99 1.78 2.9 3.2 3.63 3.90 6.73 dd, 1H,Jortho 6, H5 8.30 d, 2H, H4, H6, 27 1.01 1.80 2.9 3.2 3.40 3.97 2.30 s, 3H, CH3 in 5 5.87 s, 1H, H4 28 0.99 1.78 2.8 3.2 3.62 3.89 2.29 s, 3H, CH3 in 6 6.57 d,2H,Jortho 6.5, H3, H5, 7.61 t, 3H,H4 Continued....29 0.93 1.70 2.54 3.2 3.65 3.62 2.08 s, 3H, CH in 3 6.77 dd, 1H, Jortho 5 7, H5, , 7.48 d, 1H, H4, 7.93 d, 1H, H6, .30 0.97 0.98 1.78 2.9 3.5 3.77 4.02 4.12 6.6 6.9 m, 2H, H3, and H5, , jCH 11 CH2 2 d t 7.64 dd, 1H,Jorto 8Hz, H4, 12 6.5 8.03 d, 1H, Jorto 6Hz, H6, 31 0.99 1.79 3.0 3.7 3.83 4.05 4.20 6.7 6.8 m, 1H,H5, , 8.3 8.4 JCH2 11 m, 2H, H4, and H6, CH2 12 6.5 2 d t Continued......32 0.98 1.76 2.8 3.2 3.62 3.84 2.31 s, 6H, CH3 in 4 6.68 s, 1H, H3, 6.69 d, 1H,Jortho 5.5 Hz, H5 7.82 d, 1H, H6 33 1.00 1.80 2.9 3.3 3.56 3.95 2.12 s, 3H, CH3 Im. , 6.48 s,1H, H5 34 1.00 1.79 2.8 3.2 3.58 3.91 2.14 s, 3H, CH3 in 4 3.33 s, 3H, CH3 in 3 6.55 s, 1H, H5 Recorded at 270 MHz with a Brcker spectrometer in D2O with TSP as an internal standard ppm Preparation of pharmaceutical compositionsExample 35 A gelatine capsule is filled. with a blend of 250 mg of the compound o Example 25, 25 mg of talc, 25 mg of sodium carboxymethylcellulose and 90 mg of starchExample 36A gelatin capsule is filled with a blend of 400 mg of the compound of Example 24, 50 mg of starch, 20. mg of talc, and 10 mg of magnesium stearateExample 37A parenteral solution is prepared with 500 mg of the compound of Example 25 dissolved in 2 ml of Sterile Water for InjectionExample 38A topical ointment is prepared with 200 mg of the compound of Example 26 600 mg of polyethylene glycol 4000 U.S.P. 1.2 g of polyethylene glycol 400 U.S.P. Following the procedure described in the foregoing text. and Examples, the following compounds listed inTable VI are obtained.EMI65.1 TABLE VIEMI65.2 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP No. tb SEP 1 SEP CH3CH2 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP J SEP 2 tb SEP 2 SEP CR3CR2 SEP SEP 0 SEP YH tb SEP 3 tb SEP 3 SEP CR 3CR2 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP 2 tb SEP CR SEP tb SEP J3 tb SEP 4 SEP CH3 CH SEP O SEP tb SEP 3 tb SEP CR tb SEP 13 SEP tb SEP 5 SEP CH3 CH SEP O SEP N tb Continued...EMI66.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP No. tb SEP CHz tb SEP 6 SEP CH2 CH SEP O SEP 9 tb SEP 7 SEP CE3CH2 SEP 0 SEP 2 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 8 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP 0 tb SEP 9 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP O SEP e SEP CH3 tb SEP 10 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP Q SEP tb SEP r7 tb SEP 11 SEP CH SEP CH SEP SEP 1 SEP tb SEP 12 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 SEP g SEP 4 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 13 SEP CR3 CH2 SEP 3 SEP 2 tb SEP 14 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 tb Continued....EMI67.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP No. SEP N tb SEP 15 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP O SEP t tb SEP 16 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 1 tb SEP H tb SEP CR tb SEP j3 tb SEP 17 SEP CH3 CH SEP 0 tb SEP 3 tb SEP CR tb SEP j3 tb SEP 18 SEP CH3 CH SEP tb SEP 19 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP SEP 0 SEP tb SEP 20 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 SEP X tb SEP 20 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP 21 SEP CR3 CH2 SEP SEP 0 SEP NH2 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP N tb SEP 22 SEP CH3 CR2 SEP SEP 0 tb Continued....EMI68.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP N. SEP I tb SEP 23 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP O SEP tb SEP 3 SEP t tb SEP 24 SEP CH3 CX2 SEP 0 SEP tb SEP 25 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP O SEP tb SEP C1R3 SEP N tb SEP 26 SEP CH3 CR SEP A SEP J tb SEP 3 tb SEP 3 tb SEP 27 SEP CR3 SEP CR2 SEP o tb SEP C6H5 tb SEP S SEP N SEP CR tb SEP 3 tb SEP 28 SEP CR3CRj SEP 0 tb SEP CH3 SEP ivcE3 tb SEP 29 SEP CR3 CR SEP O tb SEP ct3 tb SEP 30 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP O tb Continued....EMI69.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP No. tb SEP CR3 tb SEP 31 SEP CH3CR2 SEP t SEP CH3 tb SEP NII T tb SEP 32 SEP CR3 CH2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 01NR2 tb SEP CNH2 tb SEP 33 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP 6H5 tb SEP 34 SEP CH SEP CH SEP SEP O SEP 4 tb SEP 35 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP e SEP 6H5 tb SEP N tb SEP 36 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP O SEP N SEP 3 tb SEP 3 tb SEP 37 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 tb Continued....EMI70.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP No. SEP N tb SEP SOCH3 tb SEP N 0CH3 tb SEP 38 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 tb SEP N tb SEP 39 SEP CR3 CH2 SEP O tb SEP 9H tb SEP QH tb SEP 40 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 SEP tb SEP t0 tb SEP 41 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP 41 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP SEP 0 SEP num ii tb SEP 42 SEP CR3 SEP CR2 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP CR tb SEP 43 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP 0Pi0 SEP 3 tb SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP z SEP PI CH3 tb SEP 44 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 SEP  tb SEP 45 SEP CH3 SEP CH SEP SEP O SEP MN LmH3 tb SEP N SEP SOCH3 tb SEP 46 SEP CH3 CR2 SEP 0 SEP NC SEP CR tb SEP 65 SEP 3 tb Continued....EMI71.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP No. SEP N tb SEP N SEP tb SEP 47 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP SEP 0 SEP yTh02 tb SEP 48 SEP CH3 CR2 SEP SEP 0 SEP yMNR2 tb SEP 3 SEP H3 tb SEP 49 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP H3 tb SEP 3 SEP a SEP CEI tb SEP 3 tb SEP 50 SEP CH SEP CH SEP SEP O SEP 3 tb SEP 51 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP e SEP OOH tb SEP 3 tb SEP 52 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP C SEP 6H5 tb SEP 53 SEP CH SEP CH SEP SEP O SEP CH, CH3 tb Continued....EMI72.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP No. SEP N tb SEP 54 SEP CR3CR2 SEP 2 SEP tb SEP 55 SEP CH3 CH, SEP O SEP D tb SEP 56 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP SEP O tb SEP 3 tb SEP 57 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP 0 tb SEP 57 SEP CH SEP CH SEP SEP o SEP SEP B tb SEP 26H5 tb SEP 53 SEP CR3 CH2 SEP 0 tb SEP 59 SEP CR3 CH2 SEP SEP A tb SEP C6H5 tb Continued....EMI73.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP No. SEP no tb SEP 60 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP CH SEP 3S CH SEP 3 tb SEP 61 SEP CH3 CR2 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP 62 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP 0. tb SEP 63 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP P tb SEP 64 SEP CH SEP CH2 SEP SEP s 7J tb SEP 3 tb SEP 65 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP AW SEP e tb SEP CR2 CH2 tb SEP 66 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP SEP 0 SEP my tb SEP d, SEP CH SEP 2 SEP tb SEP 2 tb SEP 67 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 tb SEP CH2 SEP CH2 CH3 tb Continued....EMI74.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP No. SEP N tb SEP 68 SEP CR3 CH2 SEP g SEP 0 tb SEP CH2 CH SEP 2 tb SEP 2 SEP c. tb SEP N SEP N tb SEP 69 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP 2ts SEP A SEP CH3 tb SEP 3 SEP L tb SEP 70 SEP CR3 SEP CR2 SEP 0 tb SEP N SEP SEP N tb SEP 71 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP zS SEP ss SEP CX2 CH CH2 tb SEP 3 SEP c SEP S tb SEP 72 SEP CH3 CH, SEP SEP SEP 4 SEP O SEP ss SEP CX2 CH CH2 tb SEP 73 SEP CR3 CH2 SEP SEP O SEP oJl SEP C6R5 tb SEP 74 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 SEP l.QCl tb SEP CR tb SEP 75 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP SEP 0 SEP OCR3 tb Continued....EMI75.1 tb Compound SEP R SEP n tb SEP No. SEP N tb SEP 76 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 2r tb SEP N SEP NO2 tb SEP N SEP NO tb SEP 77 SEP CR3 CR2 SEP o SEP 4 tb SEP 78 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP O SEP NH2 tb SEP 79 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP 0 SEP 7mO2 tb SEP 80 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 7N02 tb SEP N N tb SEP 81 SEP CH3 CH2 SEP SEP SEP N tb SEP CH2 CH2 Br tb