# Block replacement in a high speed cache memory system.

## Abstract
The invention relates to computer memory systems in which the main memory is divided into sets, and a high speed cache or buffer memory is provided which holds four blocks of words from each set of the main memory. When a new block is to be written into the cache memory one of the old blocks must be displaced to make way for it, and this is done in accordance with an algorithm determining which of the blocks was least recently used. In the prior art this algorithm has required the storage in the high speed cache memory of four digits per block, that is to say, eight digits for the four blocks of each set, and this takes up a substantial part of the expensive high speed storage. The present invention reduces this requirement to only three digits for each set of four blocks. The up date algorithm is shown in Figure 2. The blocks are regarded as being in two pairs, AB and CD a first digit, digit 2 is set to 0 or 1 according to the pair in which the accessed block lies the second digit is set to 0 or 1 if the block lies in one pair, CD, to indicate which block of that pair was accessed, and similarly the third digit, digit 0, is set to 0 or 1 when a block of the other pair AB is accessed. A degrade memory can be provided in which a digit is set to indicate a faulty block in the buffer. This digit is supplied to the comparator and to the age algorithm circuits of the buffer memory to prevent the faulty block being accessed and to force the age digits to a value such that the block will never be displaced into, or rewritten from, main memory.