# Method of manufacturing finely structured metal patterns on metal or semiconductor surfaces.

## Abstract
Manufacture of metal patterns on the surface of a substrate consisting of metal or a semiconductor compound while using a mask selected from SiO₂ or Si₃N₄ which is first provided uniformly on the substrate from the vapour phase and is then etched away locally. The exposed parts are metallized by means of an electroless plating bath, if desired after a separate deposition of nuclei.

## Claims
1. A method of manufacturing metal patterns in or on the surface of a substrate consisting of a metal or a semiconductor compound by means of an electroless metalplating solution while using a metallization mask, characterized in that first a uniform layer of a compound selected from SiO2 and Si3N4 is deposited on the substrate surface from the vapour phase and the desired metallization mask pattern is manufactured herefrom by photo etching the uniform layer, the masked substrate is contacted with the electroless metalplating solution if necessary after the masked substrate has been contacted with a liquid which deposits noble metal nuclei on the substrate. 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 for selectively providing metal patterns in the surface of a substrate consisting of a metal or a semiconductor compound, characterized in that after providing the mask pattern formed from SiO2 or Si N the substrate is first profiled by 34 etching before the masked substrate is contacted with the electroless metalplating solution or with the liquid which deposits metal nuclei on the substrate, when such a liquid is used. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 of manufacturing metal patterns on the surface of a substrate consisting of GaAs or AlGaAs, characterized in that after a treatment with an alkalimetalhydroxide solution and after providing nuclei, Au or an Au Cu alloy is deposited selectively on the substrate masked by means of SiO2 or Si 3N4 by means of an electroless plating solution. 4. A method as claimed in Claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized in that Si02 is provided on the substrate surface by means of chemical deposition from the vapour phase and the resulting layer is compacted by heating the substrate with the layer for a period of 1 4 1 hour at a tempera ture of 610 C 20 C. 5. Products consisting of a finely structured metal pattern on a substrate of metal or of a semiconductor metal compound, obtained according to any of the preceding Claims.

## Description
Method of manufacturing finely structured metal patterns on metal or semiconductor surfaces. The invention relates to a method of manufacturing finel structured metal patterns in or on metal or semiconductor surfaces. Metal patterns in or on metal or semiconductor surfaces have so far been manufactured by means of photoetching methods for example, GB PS 1,163,463 . The socalled dry etching , i.e. sputter etching, or ion etching are also frequently used. However, when fine structures are to be manufactured, these methods fail due to the associated loss of resolving power. This is caused inter alia by the undercutting occurring. An additional di sad vantge of photo lacquers is that during the merallization they also obtain a metal coating. The cured photo lacquer must thus be removed with the metal layer deposited thereon lift off methods . This again involves loss of resolving power.Moreover, many substrate materials require a pretreatment with an alkalimetalhydroxide solution in order to obtain a good bonding of the metal patterd and a good contact junction. This treatment often takes place with strong alkalimetalhydroxide solutions at an elevated temperature and for long periods of time. Moreover, many electroless metal plate baths, for example, copper, gold and gold copper alloy baths, which are used for making the patterns, are strongly alkaline and are used at ele vated temperatures up to 80 to 90 C. The usual positive photosensitive lacquers, however, cannot withstand contact with strongly alkaline liquids very well. Negative photolacquers can withstand contact with alkaline liquids better, but they are less suitable for making finely structured patterns by means of the usual U.V. exposure methods. The method of manufacturing metal patterns in or on the surface of a substrate consisting of a metal or a semiconductor compound by means of an electroless metal plating solution while using a metallization mask is charac terized according to the invention in that first a uniform layer of a compound selected from SiO2 and Si 3N4 is deposited on the substrate surface from the vapour phase, and that the desired metallization mask pattern is manufactured herefrom by photo etching the uniform layer, the masked substrate is contacted with the electroless plating solution, if necessary after the masked substrate has been contacted with a liquid which deposits noble metal nuclei on the substrate. If desired the deposited layer may be compacted by a temperature treatment. By means of this method it is possible to manufacture very fine patterns g 2 us on metals and semiconductor compounds. In the experiments which led to the invention, it was found that Al203, deposited on a substrate from the vapour phase, from which a mask was then manufactured by means of a photo etching method was covered as rapidly with metal as the free substrate upon metallization after deposition of nuclei. So selectivity in using AwlO is 2 3 entirely out of the question. It was surprising that theSiO2 and Si3N4 used in the same manner showed an excellent selectivity in the metal deposition in contrast with the Awl 0 no nuclei were deposited on the mask material, 23 either from the electroless metal plating solution, or from a noble metal nuclei depositing solution. Which factors play a role in the metallization or non metallization of the mask material has remained entirely obscure. As compared with the usual organic photolacquers, SiO2 and Si3N4 as mask materials can withstand the contact with concentrated alkalimetalhydroxide at elevated temperature much better than the usual organic photo lacquers, and they can also withstand acid noble metal solutions acidified, for example, with HCl, acetic acid which are used for the deposition of nuclei, acid electroless nickel plating solutions and also the alkaline electroless metal plating solutions for depositing gold, copper and goldcopper alloys. When using the method in accordance with the invention,the masking surface is not provided with nuclei and remains free from metal deposits. Since no metal de posit takes place on the mask surface, anti fogging agents need not be used. Moreover, no lift off method need be used as a result of which loss of resolving power might occur. On the contrary, not removing the masking layer sometimes has the advantage of an extra protection against atmospheric attack. In other cases it may just be of advantage that the masking layer can be removed by etching without this attacking the metal layer. It is to be noted that silicon dioxide is known as a masking and is frequently used in semiconductor technology. Until now, however, this has always been used in combination with non selective vapour deposition methods.As is also the case in the method in accordance with the invention, the 5i02 is subjected to a temperature treat ment at approximately 600 C 20 C for 1 4 1 hour as a result of which increase of the density of the material is achieved. Within the scope of the present invention, such a silicon dioxide mask may first be used as an etching mask for profiling the underlying substrate material and then as a mask for the selective metallization of the substrate surface. An embodiment which is interesting within the scope of the present invention relates to providing a pattern of lines of gold, copper, or a gold copper alloy on a surface which consists of p GaAs. It is essential that said surface should be cleaned prior to the metallization by means of a strongly alkaline liquid for example, 200 by weight of KOH solution in water . An extra advantage of said metallization is that the resulting contacts on GaAs shown an ohmic behaviour. Readily bondable gold patterns can also be provided on AlGaAs surfaces by means of similar methods. A few embodiments will now be described for illustrations of the invention.Example 1. A GaAs wafer which had been made p conductive by means of diffusion of zinc, was provided with a 150 nm thick silicon dioxide Silox layer on the 2 GaAs surface by chemical vapour deposition from a mixture of Sill4 and oxygen at a temperature of 400 C. The assembly was then heated at 625 C for 30 minutes and subsequently cooled to ambient temperature. A pattern of lines to obtain the desired Silox mask was then etched in the Silox layer by means of a commercially available photo lacquer and an etching liquid consisting of 1 part by volume of NH4F HF solution and 3 parts of water.The NH4F HF solution was obtained by mixing 7 parts by volume of NH4F solution 200 g of NH4F and 300 g of water and 1 part by volume ofHF solution 49a0 in water . A wedge shaped groove of 4 m width and depth was etched in the GaAs by contact at 25 C with a solution consisting of 1 part by volume of H202 30 ó by weight , 1 part by volume of ammonia solution 25 by weight and 10 parts by volume of water. The GaAs wafer with the Silox line pattern was kept immersed at 70 C for approximately 4 minutes in a solution of 20 by weight of potassium hydroxide in water. After rinsing for approximately T minute in deionized water, the GaAs wafer was kept immersed in a solution which was prepared by dissolving 0. 3 g of palladium chloride in 9 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid solution and diluting with 9 ml of water. 864 ml of glacial acetic acid were added and then another 22.6 ml of hydroflyoric acid solution 40 by weight as described by L.A. d Asaro c.s. in J.Electrochem. Soc. 127, Sep. 1980, PP. 1935 1939 . After rinsing in running deionized water for a few minutes, the GaAs wafer was kept immersed for 11 hours in a solution heated at 50 C and containing per litre 0.04 mol. cupric sulphate 0.014 mol. potassium gold I cyanide 0.072 mol. tetra Na salt of ethylenediamine tetra acetic acid 0.12 mol. sodium hydroxide 0.10 mol. formaldehyde. The wedge shaped groove was then filled entirely with a gold alloy containing approximately 1 by weight of Cu. No metal at all had deposited on the Silox. The gold alloy layer behaved as an ohmic contact and proved to be bondable. After a temperature treatment for 20 minutes at 325 C in an argon atmosphere, the contact resistance was 1.4 x 10 r 2n cm2, which may be said to be good in every respect, for example, for use in laser technology. Similar results can be obtained by using 5i3N4 as a mask instead of Silox. This is deposited on the GaAs surface from a gas flow containing ammonia, nitrogen and silane SiH4 .Example 2. In the manner described in Example 1, a 2 GaAs wafer was provided with a Silox mask, the pattern being provided by chemical etching with the NH4F 1w solution.The GaAs was not etched. After providing nuclei, also in the manner of Example 1, the GaAs wafer was metallized selectively by keeping the wafer immersed for 10 minutes in a solution which was heated at 92 C and contained per litre of solution in water 30 g glycine 10 g sodium hypophosphire and 30 g nickel chloride. Well adhering nickel was deposited on the GaAs while the Silox mask was not metallized.Example 3. A p AlGaAs wafer was provided with a Silox mask in the manner described in Example 1. After carrying out the pretreatments according to Example 1, metallization was carried out for 1 hour in a solution also as described in Example 1. A selective and well adhering gold deposit was obtained according to the pattern.Example 4. A gold pattern as obtained in the metallization of Example 1 was also manufactured on a metallic copper layer having thereon a Silox mask instead of on the P GaAs. For that purpose the same electroless plating gold alloy solution was used.