# Isomerization process.

## Abstract
Long chain C

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An isomerization process which comprises contacting a hydrocarbon feedstock comprising long chain n paraffins under isomerization conditions with a catalyst comprising a crystalline, large pore zeolite having a silica alumina ratio greater than 10 1 and a hydrogenation component to convert the n paraffins into iso paraffins. 2. A process according to claim 1, in which the hydrocarbon feedstock has a boiling range of 150 C to 560 C. 3. A process according to claim 2, in which the hydrocarbon feedstock has a boiling range of 3400C to 540 C. 4. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 3, in which the zeolite has a silica alumina ratio of at least 50 1. 5. A process according to claim 4, in which the zeolite has a silica alumina ratio of at least 100 1. 6. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, in which the zeolite has a Constraint Index of up to 2.0 and a hydrocarbon sorption capacity of at least 5 weight percent. 7. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 6, in which the zeolite is ZSM 20. 8. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 6, in which the zeolite is zeolite V. 9. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 8, in which the hydrogenation component is a metal of Group VII IA of thePeriodic Table. 10. A process according to claim 9, in which the hydrogenation component comprises platinum. 11. A process according to claim 9, in which.the hydrogenation component comprises palladium. 12. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 11, in which the feedstock is contacted with the catalyst in the presence of hydrogen. 13. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 12, in which the feedstock is contacted with the catalyst at a temperature from 1500C to 5000C, a pressure up to 25,000 kPa and a space velocity of 0.1 to 10.

## Description
ISOMERIZATI0N PROCESS This invention relates to isomerization and, more particularly, to a process for isomerizing paraffins. A unit process which is frequently encountered in petroleum refining is isomerization. In this process, as conventionally operated, low molecular weight C4 and C, n paraffins are converted into iso paraffins in the presence of an acidic catalyst such as aluminum chloride or an acidic zeolite as described in G.B.1,210,335. Isomerization processes for pentane and hexane which operate in the presence of hydrogen have also been proposed but since these processes operate at relatively high temperatures and pressures, the isomerization is accompanied by extensive cracking induced by the acidic catalyst, so that a substantial proportion of useful products is degraded to products of lower value. Isomerization processes have, in general, been confined to applications with lower molecular weight alkanes such as butane, pentane and hexane, as mentioned above, but some investigations have been made into the isomerization of longer chain alkanes over various types of catalyst. A fluorinated platinum on alumina catalyst is described in Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod. Res. Devel. 8, 154 1969 and the use of platinum and palladium on zeolite Y for the hydroisomerization of longer chain C10 C16 n alkanes is described in ACS Symposium Series, Vol. 20, Weitkamp, J. , A.C.S.,Washington, D.C., 1975. The catalysts used in the processes are materials with a relatively high degree of acidic functionality which, in the case of the zeolites at least, is conferred by reason of their relatively high alumina content, the zeolite having a silica alumina ratio of about 5 1.Although a certain amount of acidic functionality is essential to the mechanism of isomerization, it also tends to induce cracking reactions which, as mentioned above, tend to degrade the feedstock to products of lower value. To a certain extent, the presence of an excess of Åacidic funtionality can be offset by the use of a strong hydrogenation component such as platinum, but even then, the known types of catalyst all tend to promote an excessive degree of cracking during the isomerization process. It has now been found that the selectivity of the catalyst to isomerization may be increased by the use of a highly siliceous large pore zeolite such as zeolite Y, zeolite beta or zeoliteZSM 20. The highly siliceous nature of the zeolites reduces their acidic functionality so that cracking is minimized and isomerization favored. This reduction in acidic functionality makes it possible to use hydrogenation components in the catalyst which are less active because the acidic nature of the catalyst does not need to be balanced to such a great degree by a strong hydrogenation catalyst palladium and other metals such as nickel may also be used as the hydrogenation component. According to the invention, there is provided an isomerization process which comprises contacting a hydrocarbon feedstock comprising long chain n paraffins under isomerization conditions with a catalyst comprising a crystalline, large pore zeolite having a silica alumina ratio greater than 10 1 and a hydrogenation component to convert the n paraffins into iso paraffins. The isomerization process is operated with a hydrocarbon feedstock which contains long chain C7 n paraffins. During the isomerization these waxy paraffinic components are isomerized to iso paraffins which are inherently less waxy. The isomerized product therefore has a lower pour point and may be used in applications where low temperature performance is required, for example in jet fuels, diesel fuels, lubricating oils and heating oils. The extent of cracking is, however, reduced so that the total liquid yield of the process is improved. A further advantage of the present process is that the present catalysts show less deactivation than catalysts prepared from less siliceous zeolites this advantage is maintained even with the weaker hydrogenation components such as palladium. Because the present process offers the possibility of reducing the content of waxy, n paraffins it may be used for dewaxing purposes. In addition, however, the iso paraffins which are produced by the isomerization usually have higher octane ratings than the straight chain paraffins from which they are derived. The process therefore offers the possibility of producing high octane naphthas and gasolines as well as low pour point jet fuels, diesel fuels, heating oils and lubricating oils from highly paraffinic feedstocks. The feedstock for the process is one which contains significant amounts of longer chain C7 n alkanes, especially n paraffins in the range C10 to C40. Generally, the feedstock will be a C10 feed since feedstocks of this type benefit most by removal of the waxy straight chain paraffins when a dewaxed, low pour point product is desired. Feedstocks of this kind will normally have an initial boiling point of at least 1500C and may be selected from a wide range of petroleum refinery streams from distillates to residual products, including kerosenes, gas oils light and heavy , reduced crudes atmospheric and vacuum , deasphalted residua, catalytic cracking tower bottoms, coker tower bottoms, hydrocracker effluents and crudes. Oils derived from shales, tar sands and coal may also be treated in this way.The feedstock will typically have a boiling range of about 2600C to 5600C and more usually about 3400C to 5400C. Lubricating oil stocks will normally have a boiling range of 3400C to 5400C. During the isomerization process the n paraffins in the feedstock will be converted into iso paraffins. Generally, the presence of aromatics is undesirable although single ring aromatics which are readily hydrogenated over the metal component of the catalyst can be tolerated polycyclic aromatics which are commonly found in the higher boiling fractions IBP over 3400C are undesirable because they are preferentially sorbed on most of this class of catalysts, thereby precluding the paraffins from access to the catalytic sites and so inhibiting the desired isomerization. The aromatic content may, for preference, be held below 10 weight percent although slightly greater amounts up to about 20 weight percent might be tolerated if the proportion of monocyclic aromatics is sufficiently high and if a sufficiently strong hydrogenation component such as platinum is present on the catalyst. The catalyst used in the process is a large pore crystalline zeolite. Many crystalline zeolites are known. Some occur at least so far only in nature, for instance paulingite and merlinoite some occur only as a result of synthesis, for instance zeolites A and ZSM 5 and some occur in both natural and synthetic forms, for instance mordenite, a synthetic counterpart of which is known as Zeolon, and faujasite, synthetic counterparts of which are known as zeolites X and Y. Counterparts are of course demonstrated as such by correspondence of their X ray diffraction data, the indicia by means of which the individuality of a zeolite is established. Such data are a manifestation of the particular geometry of the three dimensional lattice, formed of SiO4 andA104 tetrahedra crosslinked by the sharing of oxygen atoms and including sufficient cationic complement to balance the resulting negative charge on the A104 tetrahedra, of which a zeolite consists. The chemical formula of a zeolite is thus Mx,n Al02 x 5i02 y where M is a cation of valence n and x and y are the number of aluminum and silicon atoms, respectively, in the unit cell. This expression is however frequently transformed into the mole ratio of oxides form M2 nO Al2O3 Y 2xSlO2 which is of course empirically ascertainable and thus the only formula which can be ascribed to a zeolite when its unit cell contents are unknown. Since the only significant quantity in such a formula is the term y 2x, and since this term which is almost invariably a range can usually be satisfied by many zeolites of widely differing lattice geometries, chemical formula is not of value in establishing the identity of a zeolite.Furthermore, such a formula frequently expresses artefact when empirically derived, the cationic valence aluminum atoms ratio deviating from the unity which it must in fact be and it fails to provide for zeolites whose lattice structure can be brought into existence from reaction mixtures from which alumina is excluded. The zeolites which are used in the present process are characterized by a porous lattice structure which possesses pores having a minimum dimension of at least 6 Angstroms. In addition, the zeolite must have a structural silica alumina ratio of 10 1 or more, preferably much higher, for example 20 1, 50 1, 100 1, 200 1 or 500 1. Zeolites of this type may also be characterized in terms of their Constraint Index and their hydrocarbon sorption capacity. Zeolites have a crystal structure which is capable of regulating the access to an egress from the intracrystalline free space. This control, which is effected by the crystal structure itself, is dependent bdth upon the molecular configuration of the material which is or, alternatively, is not, to have access to the internal structure of the zeolite and also upon the structure of the zeolite itself. The pores of the zeolite are in the form of rings which are formed by the regular disposition of the tetrahedra making up the anionic framework of the crystalline aluminosilicate, the oxygen atoms themselves being bonded to the silicon or aluminum atoms at the centers of the tetrahedra.A convenient measure of the extent to which a zeolite provides this control for molecules of varying sizes to its internal structure is provided by theConstraint Index of the zeolite zeolites which provide highly restricted access to and egress from the internal structure have a high value for the Constraint Index and zeolites of this kind usually have pores of small size. In contrast, zeolites which provide relatively free access to the internal zeolite structure have a low value for the Constraint Index. The method by whichConstraint Index is determined is described fully in U.S. Patent 4,016,218 to which reference is made for details of the method together with examples of Constraint Index for some typical zeolites.Because Constraint Index is related to the crystalline structure of the zeolite but is nevertheless determined by means of a test which exploits the capacity of the zeolite to engage in a cracking reaction, that is, a reaction dependent upon the possession of acidic sites and functionality in the zeolite, the sample of zeolite used in the test should be representative of zeolitic structure whose Constraint Index is to be determined and should also possess requisite acidic functionality for the test. Acidic functionatity may, of course, be varied by artifices including base exchange, steaming or control of silica alumina ratio. Consistent with the minimum pore size limitation mentioned above the zeolites used in the present process should have aConstraint Index in the range of up to 2.0 and usually, theConstraint Index will fall in the range 0.5 to 2.9. Because the isomerization selectivity becomes lower with smaller pore size in the zeolite, the larger pore materials which conform to these limitations will be preferred. Zeolites which may be used in the process include zeolite Y, zeolite beta, mordenite and zeolitesZSM 12, ZSM 20 and ZSM 50. Zeolite ZSM 12 is described in U.S.Patent No. 3,832,449, ZSM 20 in U.S. Patent No. 3,972,983 and ZSM 50 in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 343,631. Highly siliceous forms of ZSM 12 are described in European Patent Application 0013630. Reference is made to those publications for details of those zeolites and their preparation. Another property which characterizes the zeolites which may be used in the catalysts is their hydrocarbon sorption capacity.The zeolite used in the catalysts should have a hydrocarbon sorption capacity for n hexane of greater than 5 preferably greater than 6 percent by weight at 500C. The hydrocarbon sorption capacity is determined by measuring the sorption at 500C, 2666 Pa hydrocarbon pressure in an inert carrier such as helium Hydrocarbon sorption capacity X Wt. of hydrocarbon sorbed x 100 Wt. of zeolite The sorption test is conveniently carried out in a TGA with helium as a carrier gas flowing over the zeolite at 500C. The hydrocarbon of interest, for example n hexane is introduced into the gas stream adjusted to 20 mm Hg hydrocarbon pressure and the hydrocarbon uptake, measured as the increase in zeolite weight is recorded. The sorption capacity may then be calculated as a percentage. If the zeolite selected may be produced in the desired highly siliceous form by direct synthesis, this will often be the most convenient method for obtaining it. Zeolite beta, for example, is known to be capable of being synthesized directly in forms having silica alumina ratios up to 100 1, as described in U.S. Patents 3,308,069 and Re 28,341 which describe zeolite beta, its preparation and properties in detail. Reference is made to those patents for those details. Zeolite Y, on the other hand, can be synthesized only in forms which have silica alumina ratios up to about 5 1 and in order to achieve higher ratios, resort may be made to various techniques to remove structural aluminum so as to obtain a more highly siliceous zeolite. The same is true of mordenite which, in its natural or directly synthesized form has a silica alumina ratio of about 10 1. Zeolite ZSM 20 may be directly synthesized with silica alumina ratios of 7 1 or higher, typically in the range of 7 1 to 10 1, as described in U.S. Patents 3,972,983 and 4,021,331 to which reference is made for details of that zeolite, its preparation and properties. Zeolite ZSM 20 also may be treated by various methods to increase its silica alumina ratio. Control of the silica alumina ratio of the zeolite in its as synthesized form may be exercised by an appropriate selection of the relative proportions of the starting materials, especially the silica and alumina precursors, a relatively smaller quantity of the alumina precursor resulting in a higher silica alumina ratio in the product zeolite, up to the limit of the synthetic procedure. If higher ratios are desired and alternative syntheses affording the desired high silica alumina ratios are not available, other techniques such as those described below may be used in order to prepare the desired highly siliceous zeolites. It should be understood that the silica alumina ratios referred to herein are the structural or framework ratios, that is, the ratio for the Si04 to the A104 tetrahedra which together constitute the structure of which the zeolite is composed. This ratio may vary from the silica alumina ratio determined by various physical and chemical methods. For example, a gross chemical analysis may include aluminum which is present in the form of cations associated with the acidic sites on the zeolite, thereby giving a low silica alumina ratio. Similarly, if the ratio is determined by thermogravimetric analysis TGA of ammonia desorption, a low ammonia titration may be obtained if cationic aluminum prevents exchange of the ammonium ions onto the acidic sites.These disparities are particularly troublesome when certain treatments such as the dealuminization methods described below which result in the presence of ionic aluminum free of the zeolite structure are employed. Due care should therefore be taken to ensure that the framework silica alumina ratio is correctly determined. A number of different methods are known for increasing the structural silica alumina ratio of various zeolites. Many of these methods rely upon the removal of aluminum from the structural framework of the zeolite by chemical agents appropriate to this end. A considerable amount of work on the preparation of aluminum deficient faujasites has been performed and is reviewed in Advances in Chemistry Series No. 121, Molecular Sieves, G.T. Kerr, AmericanChemical Society, 1973. Specific methods for preparing dealuminized zeolites are described in the following, and reference is made to them for details of the method Catalysis by Zeolites International Symposium on Zeolites, Lyon, September 9 11, 1980 ,Elsevier Scientific Publishing Co., Amsterdam, 1980 dealuminization of zeolite Y with silicon tetrachloride U.S. 3,442,795 and G.B.1,058,188 hydrolysis and removal of aluminum by chelation G.B. 1,061,847 acid extraction of aluminum U.S. 3,493,519 aluminum removal by steaming and chelation U.S. 3,591,488 aluminum removal by steaming U.S. 4,273,753 dealuminization by silicon halides and oxyhalides U.S. 3,691,099 aluminum extraction with acid U.S.4,093,560 dealuminization by treatment with salts U.S. 3,937,791 aluminum removal with Cr III solutions U.S. 3,506,400 steaming followed by chelation U.S. 3,640,681 extraction of aluminum with acetylacetonate followed by dehydroxylation U.S. 3,836,561 removal of aluminum with acid DE OS 2,510,740 treatment of zeolite with chlorine or chlorine contrary gases at high temperatures , NL 7,604,264 acid extraction , JA 53,101,003 treatment with EDTA or other materials to remove aluminum and J.Catalysis 54 295 1978 hydrothermal treatment followed by acid extraction . Because of their convenience and practicality the preferred dealuminization methods for preparing the present highly siliceous zeolites are those which rely upon acid extraction of the aluminum from the zeolite. It has been found that zeolite beta may be readily dealuminized by acid extraction and a suitable method comprises contacting the zeolite with an acid, preferably a mineral acid such as hydrochloric acid. The dealuminization proceeds readily at ambient and mildly elevated temperatures and occurs with minimal losses in crystallinity, to form high silica forms of zeolite beta with silica alumina ratios of at least 100 1, with ratios of 200 1 or even higher being readily attainable. The zeolite is conveniently used in the hydrogen form for the dealuminization process although other cationic forms may also be employed, for example, the sodium form. If these other forms are used, sufficient acid should be employed to allow for the replacement by protons of the original cations in the zeolite. The amount of zeolite in the zeolite acid mixture should generally be from 5 to 60 percent by weight. The acid may be a mineral acid, that is an inorganic acid, or an organic acid. Typical inorganic acids which can be employed include mineral acids such as hydrochloric, sulfuric, nitric and phosphoric acids, peroxydisulfonic acid, dithionic acid, sulfamic acid, peroxymonosulfuric acid, amidosulfonic acid, nitrosulfonic acid, chlorosulfuric acid, pyrosulfuric acid, and nitrous acid.Representative organic acids which may be used include formic acid, trichloroacetic acid, and trifluoroacetic acid. The concentration of added acid should be such as not to lower the pH of the reaction mixture to an undesirably low level which could affect the crystallinity of the zeolite undergoing treatment. The acidity which the zeolite can tolerate will depend, at least in part, upon the silica alumina ratio of the starting material. Generally, it has been found that zeolite beta can withstand concentrated acid without undue loss in crystallinity but as a general guide, the acid will be from 0.1N to 4.ON, usually 1 to 2N. These values hold good regardless of the silica alumina ratio fo the zeolite beta starting material. Stronger acids tend to effect a relatively greater degree of aluminum removal than weaker acids. Higher silica alumina ratios in the product may be obtained with starting materials of relatively lower silica alumina ratio, for example below 30 1. The dealuminization reaction proceeds readily at ambient temperatures but mildly elevated temperatures may be employed, for example up to 1000C. The duration of the extraction will affect the silica alumina ratio of the product since extraction, being diffusion controlled, is time dependent. However, because the zeolite becomes progressively more resistant to loss of crystallinity as the silica alumina ratio increases i.e. it becomes more stable as the aluminum is removed, higher temperatures and more concentrated acids may be used towards the end of the treatment than at the beginning without the attendant risk of losing crystallinity. After the extraction treatment, the product is water washed free of impurities, preferably with distilled water, until the effluent wash water has a pH within the approximate range of 5 to 8. Catalytic materials for particular uses can be prepared by replacing the cations as required with other metallic or ammoniacal ions. If calcination is carried out prior to ion exchange, some or all of the resulting hydrogen ions can be replaced by metal ions in the ion exchange process. The silica alumina ratio will be at least 100 1 and preferably at least 150 1. Ratios of 200 1 or higher, for example 250 1, 300 1, 400 1 or 500 1 may be obtained by use of this procedure. If desired, the zeolite may be steamed prior to acid extraction so as to increase the silica alumina ratio and render the zeolite more stable to the acid. The steaming may also serve to increase the ease with which the aluminum is removed and to promote the retention of crystallinity during the extraction procedure. Highly siliceous forms of zeolite Y may be prepared by steaming or by acid extraction of structural aluminum or both but because zeolite Y in its normal, as synthesized condition, is. unstable to acid, it must first be converted to an acid stable form. Methods for doing this are known and one of the most common forms of acid resistant zeolite Y is known as Ultrastable Y USY it is described in U.S. Patents 3,293,192 and 3,402,996 and the publication, Society of Chemical Engineering London MonographMolecular Sieves, page 186 1968 by C.V. McDaniel and P.K. Maher, and reference is made to these for details of the zeolite and its preparation.In general, ultrastable refers to Y type zeolite which is highly resistant to degradation of crystallinity by high temperature and steam treatment and is characterized by a R20 content wherein R is Na, K or any other akali metal ion of less than 4 weight percent, preferably less than 1 weight percent, and a unit cell size less than 24.5 Angstroms and a silica to alumina mole ratio in the range of 3.5 to 7 or higher. The ultrastable form ofY type zeolite is obtained primarily by a substantial reduction of the alkali metal ions and the unit cell size reduction of the alkali metal ions and the unit cell size reduction. The ultrastable zeolite is identified both by the smaller unit cell and the low alkali metal content in the crystal structure. The ultrastable form of the Y type zeolite can be prepared by successively base exchanging a Y type zeolite with an aqueous solution of an ammonium salt, such as ammonium nitrate, until the alkali metal content of the Y type zeolite is reduced to less than 4 weight percent. The base exchanged zeolite is then calcined at a temperature of 5400C to 8000C for up to several hours, cooled and successively base exchanged with an aqueous solution of an ammonium salt until the alkali metal content is reduced to less than 1 weight percent, followed by washing and calcination again at a temperature of 5400C to 8000C to produce an ultrastable zeolite Y.The sequence of ion exchange and heat treatment results in the substantial reduction of the alkali metal content of the original zeolite and results in a unit cell shrinkage which is believed to lead to the ultra high stability of the resulting Y type zeolite. The ultrastable zeolite Y may then be extracted with acid to produce a highly siliceous form of the zeolite. The acid extraction may be made in the same way as described above for zeolite beta. Other methods for increasing the silica alumina ratio of zeolite Y by acid extraction are described in U.S. Patents 4,218,307, 3,591,488 and 3,691,099, to which reference is made for details of these methods. Zeolite ZSM 20 may be converted into more highly siliceous forms by a process similar to that used for zeolite Y first, the zeolite is converted to an ultrastable form which is then dealuminized by acid extraction. The conversion to the ultrastable form may suitably be carried out by the same sequence of steps used for preparing ultrastable Y. The zeolite is successively base exchanged to the ammonium form and calcined, normally at temperatures above 7000C. The calcination should be carried out in a deep bed in order to impede removal of gaseous products, as recommended in Advances in Chemistry Series, No. 121, op cit. Acid extraction of the ultrastable ZSM 20 may be effected in the same way as described above for zeolite beta. Highly siliceous forms of mordenite may be made by acid extraction procedures of the kind described, for example, in U.S.Patents 3,691,099 and 3,591,488 and other dealuminization techniques which may be used for mordenite are disclosed, for example, in U.S.Patents 4,273,753, 3,493,519 and 3,442,795. Reference is made to those patents for a full description of those processes. The isomerization reaction is one which requires but a small degree of acidic functionality in the catalyst. Because of this, the zeolite may have a very high silica alumina ratio since this ratio is inversely related to the acid site density of the catalyst. Thus, structural silica alumina ratios of 100 1 or higher are preferred and in fact the ratio may be much higher, for example 200 1, 500 1, 1000 1 or even higher. Since zeolites are known to retain their acidic functionalityteven at very high silica alumina ratios of the order of 25,000 1, ratios of this magnitude or even higher are contemplated. In addition to the zeolite component, the catalyst also contains a hydrogenation dehydrogenation component which is preferably a noble metal of Group VISTA of the Periodic Table thePeriodic Table referred to in this specification is the table approved by IUPAC and the U.S. National Bureau of Standards shown, for example, in the table of Fisher Scientific Company, Catalog No.5 702 10 . The preferred hydrogenation component is platinum but other noble metals such as palladium, gold, rhenium or rhodium may also be used. Combinations of noble metals such as platinum rhenium, platinum palladium, platinum iridium or platinum iridium rhenium together with combinations with non noble metals, particularly of Groups VIA and VIIIA are of interest, particularly with metals such as cobalt, nickel, vanadium, tungsten, titanium and molybdenum, for example, platinum tungsten, platinum nickel and platinum nickel tungsten.It is surprising that the highly siliceous zeolites permit relatively weak hydrogenation components such as palladium to be readily used because the more acidic zeolites such as zeolite Y silica alumina ratio about 5 1 have but poor selectivity for isomerization when combined with the weaker hydrogenation components such as palladium. In addition, the catalysts based on the highly siliceous zeolites in combination with the weaker hydrogenation components exhibit negligible deactivation even though similar catalysts prepared from low silica zeolites silica alumina ratio less than 10 1 become significantly deactivated in the course of use. The metal may be incorporated into the catalyst by any suitable method such as impregnation or exchange onto the zeolite.The metal may be incorporated in the form of a cationic, anionic or neutral complex such as Pt N 2 and cationic complexes of 1 4 this type will be found convenient for exchanging metals onto the zeolite. Anionic complexes are also useful for impregnating metals into the zeolites. The amount of the hydrogenation dehydrogenation component is suitably from 0.01 to 10 percent by weight, normally 0.1 to 5 percent by weight, although this will, of course, vary with the nature of the component, less of the highly active noble metals, particularly platinum, being required than of the less active metals. It may be desirable to incorporate the catalyst in another material resistant to the temperature and other conditions employed in the process. Such matrix materials include synthetic or natural substances as well as inorganic materials such as clay, silica and or metal oxides. The latter may be either naturally occurring or in the form of gelatinous precipitates or gels including mixtures of silica and metal oxides. Naturally occurring clays which can be composited with the catalyst include those of the montmorillonite and kaolin families. These clays can be used in the raw state as originally mined or initially subjected to calcination, acid treatment or chemical modification. The catalyst may be composited with a porous matrix material, such as alumina, silica alumina, silica magnesia, silica zirconia, silica beryllia or silica titania or ternary compositions, such as silica alumina thoria, silica alumina zirconia, silica alumina magnesia, and silica magnesia zirconia. The matrix may be in the form of a cogel with the zeolite. The relative proportions of zeolite component and inorganic oxide gel matrix may vary widely with the zeolite content ranging from between 1 to 99, more usually 5 to 80, percent by weight of the composite. The matrix may itself possess catalytic properties generally of an acidic nature. The feedstock for the process of the invention is contacted with the zeolite in the presence or absence of added hydrogen at elevated temperature and pressure. Temperatures are normally from 1500C to 5000C, preferably 2500C to 3500C, although temperatures as low as 2000C may be used especially if the feedstock is wholly or mostly comprised of pure paraffins. Because cracking reactions tend to increase with increasing temperatures, lower temperatures will normally be preferred in order to favor the isomerization over the cracking. Pressures range from atmospheric up to 25,000 kPa and although the higher pressures are preferred, practical considerations generally limit the pressure to a maximum of 15,000 kPa, more usually in the range 4,000 to 10,000 kPa.Space velocity is generally from 0.1 to 10 her 1 more usually 0.2 to 5 her 1. If additional hydrogen is present, the hydrogen feedstock ratio is generally from 200 to 4,000 n.l.l 1, preferably 600 to 2,000 n.l.l l. If the feedstock is in the distillate range 1650 400C , the isomerization should be carried out at a relatively low pressure, typically 1500 to 5600 kPa, but if the feedstock is a lubricating oil stock higher pressures will be appropriate, generally above 7000 kPa and usually in the range 7000 to 22000 kPa. The selectivity of the process for isomerization has been found to increase at higher space velocities, pressures, relative hydrogen pressures and metal loadings on the catalyst and also with lower temperatures. The use of higher space velocities will permit higher temperatures as will. the use of more highly noble metals as the hydrogenation component of the catalyst. As the boiling point of the feedstock components increases, the selectivity for isomerization as against cracking will decrease although compensation may be made for this by using zeolites with higher silica alumina ratios which also permit the use of higher temperatures. The process is preferably carried out in the presence of hydrogen, both to inhibit catalyst aging and to promote the isomerization reactions which are thought to proceed through an olefinically unsaturated intermediate. The conversion may be conducted by contacting the feedstock with a fixed stationary bed of catalyst, a fixed fluidized bed or with a transport bed. A simple configuration is a trickle bed operation in which the feed is allowed to trickle through a stationary fixed bed. With such a configuraton, it is desirable to initiate the reaction with fresh catalyst at a moderate temperature which is raised if the catalyst ages, in order to maintain catalytic activity. The catalyst may be regenerated by contact at elevated temperature with hydrogen gas, for example, or by burning in air or other oxygen containing gas. A preliminary hydrotreating step to remove nitrogen and sulfur and to saturate aromatics to naphthenes without substantial boiling range conversion will usually improve catalyst performance and permit lower temperatures, higher space velocities, lower pressures or combinations of these conditions to be employed. During the isomerization process the Cloh straight chain n paraffins are converted to branched chain iso paraffins which not only have lower intrinsic pour points but also superior octane numbers and diesel indices. During the isomerization, the conversion of the C1 components to gasoline and lighter boiling range materials is minimized so that the product contains little or no C10 material beyond what may have been present in the original feedstock. Thus, there is substantially no conversion to material boiling below the distillate range below about 165 C . The invention is illustrated by the following Examples in which all percentages and proportions are by weight unless the contrary is stated. Examples 1 to 8 illustrate the preparation of highly siliceous zeolite beta. Example 9 illustrates the preparation of highly siliceous zeolite ZSM 20. Example 10 illustrates the preparation of highly siliceous zeolite Y. EXAMPLES 1 5 Samples of zeolite beta in the hydrogen form and having a silica alumina ratio of 30 1 and a crystallinity of 100 percent were treated with excess hydrochloric acid of ranging normality at 250C or 950C under reflux for ranging periods as shown in Table 1 below.The silica alumina ratios of the products were determined by ammonia desorption thermogravimetric analysis TGA and the crystallinities by X ray peak area determination. The results are shown in Table 1 below. TABLE 1 Dealuminization of Zeolite Beta FrameworkEx Treatment SiO2 A1203 Crvstallinity 1 0.1 N HC1, 250, 1 hr. 40 100 2 0.1 N HC1, 950, 1 hr. 40 100 3 1 N HC1, 950, 1 hr. 190 85 4 2 N HC1, 950, 1 hr. 280 75 5 2 N HC1, 950, 2 hr. 400 Comparison of Examples 1 and 2 shows that the dealumination proceeds readily both at ambient and mildly elevated temperatures, although the degree of dealuminization effected is quite small with acid of this concentration. Use of more concentrated acid, as inExamples 3 and 4, gives a far greater degree of dealuminization a slight loss of crystallinity occurs but the product remains essentially a crystalline zeolite. Prolonged treatment, as shown inExample 5 produces a further increase in silica alumina ratio with a relatively smaller loss in crystallinity, indicating the greater stability of the zeolite to acid attack at higher silica alumina ratios.EXAMPLES 6 8 Samples of zeolite beta having silica alumina ratios bulk assay of 21.3 1, 23 1 and 35 1 were calcined in flowing nitrogen, increasing the temperature from room temperature to 5000C at 1 minute, and then holding at 5000C for 4 hours. At 5000C the zeolites were air calcined by increasing the air concentration from 15 to 30, 50, 70 and, finally, to 100 percent at 30 minute intervals and holding in lob percent air for an additional 5 hours. About 5 grams each of the calcined zeolites were then treated as follows 0.1 N HC1, 950, 1 hour 1 M NH4C1, 95 , 1 hour 2.0 N HC1, 956, 1 hour 1 M NH4C1, 950,, 1 hour The results are sumnarized in Table 2 below. TABLE 2 Dealuminization of Zeolite Beta Initial FinalEx SiO2 A1203 SiO2 A1203 6 21.3 280, 250 7 23 195 8 35 150Large sample 15 g. used for this determination.EXAMPLE 9 Ammonium exchanged TEA NaZSM 20 silica alumina ratio 10 1 was calcined in flowing nitrogen at 3000C for 4 hours, followed by heating to a final temperature of 5000C over an additional 4 hours.The HNaZSM 20 so produced was ammoniated and then ammonium exchanged with 0.5 M NH4C1 under reflux at 1000C, washed free of chloride with water and dried at 1200C. The NH4ZSM 20 was then calcined at 7600C for 3 hours in a tightly packed and covered crucible to prevent ammonia and water from escaping readily. The ultrastableHZSM 20 US was ammoniated and ammonium exchanged with 1M NH4C1 under reflux at 1000C for 1 hour, washed with water and dried at 1200C. The dried NH4ZSM 20 US was calcined at 8150C for 3 hours in a tightly packed and covered crucible and after cooling the calcined product was slurried in water 2.5 g. zeolite per 200 ml water and 1N HC1 added slowly to obtain a 0.2N HC1 concentration.The slurry was refluxed for 1 hour at 1000C to form dealuminized HZSM 20 USD which was washed with water and dried at 1200C. The product had a silica alumina ratio of 226 1 by TGA NK, desorption 200C, mien 1, helium sweep , a crystallinity of 55 percent relative to an assumed value of 100 percent for the original NH4Z5M 20 crystallinity by X ray peak determination and an n hexane cracking activity of 0.01 compared to 0.76 for the original NH4ZSM 20 100 mg sample at 4000C for minutes at 13.3 kPa in helium, sample calcined in air at 5400C prior to use .EXAMPLE 10 A sample of NaY zeolite having a silica alumina ratio of 5.23 1 by bulk assay was converted to ultrastable zeolite Y by ammonium exchange and calcination in nitrogen as described above inExample 9, followed by ammoniation and ammonia exchange and deep bed calcination at 7600C for 3 hours in a tightly packed and covered crucible. The ultrastable zeolite Y, HY US , so formed was again ammoniated and ammonium exchanged, followed by deep bed calcination at 8150C for 3 hours. Samples of the ultrastable zeolite Y were then extracted with HC1 at 900C for 4 hours, using different acid concentrations.The extracted samples were then analyzed for structural silica alumina ratio by bulk assay and TGA NH3 desorption. The n hexane cracking activity was also determined using the same conditions as in Example 9. The results are set out in Table 3 below. TABLE 3 Dealuminization of Zeolite YSAMPLE SiO2 Al2O3 SiO2 Al2O3 CRACKINGALPHA ACTIVITYDESCRIPTION PREPARATION BULK ASSAY TGA NH3 N HEXANE ALPHANaY 5.23 NH4Y US 760 C, 3 hrs 3.47 0.54 covered NH4Y US2D 0.2 815 C, 3hrs covered 0.2 N HCl, 90 C 19.5 40.8 75.6 1 0.11 4 hrsNH4 US2D 0.5 0.5N HCl, 90 C 4 hrs 19.7 48.8 0.153 735NH4 US2D 2.0 2.0NHCl, 90 C 4 hrs 279 1027 0.0015 2 0.4NH4 US2D 0.2 0.2NHCl, 90 C 4 hrs 10 36 75.2 1 0.0985 Notes 1. initial value prior to calcination at 500 C, pH decreases during titration above 600 C in TGA.2. Calculated from alpha and corrected to 750 F at 125 kJ Ea. EXAMPLE 11 15 Samples of five different zeolites were tested for isomerization activity using n hexadecane as the feedstock. The zeolites were a low sodium NH4 Y zeolite of silica alumina ratio 5 1 Example 11 , a commercial ultrastable zeolite Y from Linde Example 12 , a dealuminized zeolite Y with a silica alumina ratio of 75 1 Example 13 and two samples of zeolite beta in the as synthesized form with silica alumina ratios of 30 1 and 80 1, respectively Examples 14 and 15 . Table 4 below presents the silica alumina ratios of these zeolites, both by bulk assay andTGA NH3 desorption. Both the ultrastable Y and the acid extracted dealuminized Y zeolites contain considerable non framework aluminum. TABLE 4 Analysis of Zeolites SiO2 A1203 SiO2 A1203 Example Zeolite Bulk Assay Framework by TGA 11 Y 5 6 12 USV 5 25 13 De Al Y 10 75 14 Beta 25 30 15 Beta 80 85 The as synthesized zeolites were calcined in flowing nitrogen at 5000C for 4 hours followed by air at the same temperature for 1 hour. The five zeolites were exchanged to the ammonium form with 1M NH4C1 solution at 900C reflux for an hour.They were then calcined in flowing nitrogen at 5000C for 4 hours and given an additional NH4C1 exchange for an hour. Palladium was introduced into the zeolites by ion exchange of the tetrammine complex at room temperature overnight. The palladium exchanged material was thoroughly washed and then over dried at 1300C. The finished catalysts, which contain about 2 Pd by weight, were pelleted, crushed and sized to 0.35 to 0.5 mm before use. The catalyst 1 ml was mixed with 3 ml of 0.35 to 0.5 mm washed quartz chips 2Vycor l and then loaded into the stainless steel reactor. The catalyst was reduced in flowing hydrogen at 3700C for an hour at atmospheric pressure. Prior to the introduction of the liquid feed, the reactor was cooled to 2500C and then pressurized with hydrogen to the desired pressure. The liquid and gas products were collected at room temperature and atmospheric pressure and the combined gas and liquid recovery gave material balance of over 95 . First, the three Y zeolites were tested at a temperature of 2500C 3150C, 3,550 kPa, 2 LHSV, H2 hexadecane 25 1. The results showing the proportions of the various products obtained are illustrated in Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings. The Figure shows that the silica alumina ratio of the catalyst has a significant effect on selectivity for isomerization Iso increasing the framework silica alumina ratio reduces the number of acidic sites in the catalyst, resulting in reduced cracking and improved isomerization selectivity. In addition, the highly siliceous Pd Y catalysts show very little aging while the low silicaPdVY SiO21A1203 5 catalyst deactivates very rapidly more than 100C day at 40 percent conversion . The results obtained with the Pd De Al Y catalyst at different temperatures Example 13 are shown in Figure 2. There is essentially no cracking up to about 40 percent conversion and the maximum isomerization yield is about 60 percent at 80 percent total conversion. The results obtained with the two zeolite beta catalysts Examples 14 and 15 are shown in Figures 3 and 4. Figure 4 clearly shows the effect of the silica alumina ratio. In addition, the beta based catalyst has better isomerization selectivity than the zeoliteY based catalyst at the same silica alumina ratio cf. Fig. 2 . A mixture of C10 Cl6 n paraffins was also passed over the catalysts of Examples 13 and 15 in a further isomerization study. The composition of the feedstock is shown in Table 5 below TABLE 5 Mixed Paraffin Feedstock Composition Paraffin Wt. Percent n C10 16.6 n,C12 16.6 n C13 16.6 n C16 50.0 The feedstock was passed over the catalysts at 2 LHSV at 3,550 kPa at temperatures from 2500C to 3000C. The results are given in Tables 6 and 7 below for the catalysts of Examples 13 and 15, respectively. TABLE 6 Pd De Al Y Isomerization Paraffin Conversion, Wt. Percent nrcl6 29.2 52.2 77 93.7 n C13 12.8 19.7 32 52.8 n C12 6.8 9.1 20 32.1 n C10 7.7 14 15.2 TABLE 7 Pd Beta 85 1 Paraffin Conversion, Wt. Percent n C16 20 55.4 81.3 95.2 n C13 7.5 17.9 31.7 55.2 n C12 1.87 9.32 14.8 32.2 n C10 5.4 8.6 15.1 The results in Tables 6 and 7 show that the longer chain paraffins are converted preferentially into the lighter ones. The product distribution for the catalysts of Examples 13 and 15 is shown in Figure 5 as a function of n C16 conversion.The pour point of the C1 liquid product is shown in Figure 6 as a function of C16 conversion and it will be noted that a high yield of low pour point product can be obtained by the selective isomerization of long chain paraffins using the isomerization process of the invention. In this way, the waxy feedstock is effectively dewaxed with a minimal degree of cracking. Figure 7 summarizes the relative isomerization and cracking activities of the various zeolites at different total conversions and for different silica alumina ratios in the zeolites values of the ratio given parenthetically in the Figure .