# Bovine mastitis vaccine, process for preparing it, and method for detecting efficacy thereof.

## Abstract
A vaccine for the prevention and or control of gram positive cocci, e.g. Str. agalactiae and S. aureus, induced bovine mastitis infections comprises at least one of a at least one encapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated S. aureus strain and b at least one unencapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated S. aureus strain together with c at least one of Str. agalactiae antigen derived from a bovine isolated inactivated Str. agalactiae the antigen being derived from at least one inactivated Str. agalactiae, Type I Ia or Ib or Ic or mixtures thereof , Type II and Type III optionally containing an adjuvant and suspended or dissolved in a pharmaceutically accept able vehicle. The invention includes an enzyme linked immunosor bent assay ELISA , for assaying the humoral immune response of the lactating bovine mammary gland to detect antibody variables associated with the vaccinated or sus pended infected bovine.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A vaccine effective for the prevention and or control of gram positive cocci caused bovine mastitis which comprises an active ingredient component containing per dose in total combination a bovine mastitis preventing or controlling amount of at least one of a at least one encapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated S. aureus strain and b at least one unencapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated S. aureus strain together with c at least one of Str. agalactiae antigen derived from a bovine isolated inactivated Str. agalactiae the antigen being derived from at least one inactivated Str. agalactiae, Type I Ia or Ib or Ic or mixtures thereof , Type II and Type III optionally containing an adjuvant and suspended or dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. 2. A vaccine as in claim 1, wherein the active ingredient component comprises per dose in total combination a bovine mastitis preventing or controlling amount of at least one of a at least one encapsulated S. aureus antigen which is a capsular derived antigen derived from a bovine isolated inactivated S. aureus strain in an amount sufficient to contribute 25 425 mg N per dose b at lease one unencapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated inactivated S. aureus strain in an amount sufficient to contribute 25 425 mg N per dose c at least one staphylococcal a hemolysin toxoid, in an amount sufficient to contribute 0.5 2.0 mg N per dose d at least one staphylococcal ss hemloysin toxoid in an amount sufficient to contribute 1 2.5 mg N per dose e at least one staphylococcal gamma hemolysin toxoid in an amount sufficient to contribute 0.5 2 mg N per dose f at least one staphylococcal derived leucocidin toxoid in an amount sufficient to contribute 1 2.5 mg N per dose g at least one Str. agalactiae antigen derived from a bovine isolated inactivated Str. agalactiae the antigens being derived from all three of the inactivated Str. agalactiae, Type I Ia or Ib or Ic or mixtures , Type II and Type III the total amount of each of said Str. agalactiae antigen being present in an amount sufficient to contribute 17 280 mg N per dose. 3. The vaccine of claim 2 wherein the encapsulated S. aureus strain, if present, is NL6 ATCC31885ss, Smith ATCC39125 or 2 8 ATCC 39126 said unencapsulated S. aureus antigen, if present, is derived from both of S. aureus strains IR1 ATCC and T33 ATCC 31887 said a hemolysin toxoid, if present, is derived from S. aureus strain Wood 46 ATCC 10832 said ss hemolysin toxoid, if present, is derived from S. aureus strain SS 697 ATCC 31888 said gamma hemolysin toxoid, if present, is derived from S. aureus strain 5R ATCC 31889 and said leucocidin, if present, is derived from S. aureus strain P83 ATCC31890 . 4. A vaccine effective for the prevention and or control of gram positive cocci caused bovine mastitis which comprises an active ingredient component containing per dose in total combination a bovine mastitis preventing or controlling amount of at least one of a at least one encapsualated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated S. aureus strain and b at least one unencapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated S. aureus strain optionally containing an adjuvant and suspended or dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. 5. The vaccine of claim 4 wherein the encapsulated S. aureus antigen is a capsular derived antigen in an amount sufficient to contribute 25 425 mg N per dose and said unencapsulated 8. aureus is present in an amount sufficient to oontribute 25 425 mg N per dose. 6. The vaccine of claim 5 wherein the encapsulated S. aureus strain is NL6 ATCC31885 , Smith ATCC39125 or 2 8 ATCC 39126 . A A vaccine effective for the prevention and or control of gram positive cocci caused bovine mastitis which comprises at least one encapsulated 8. aureus antigen which is derived from f bovine isolated and inactivated S. aureus strain, optionally containing an adjuvant and suspended or dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. 8. A vaccine according to claim 7 wherein said antigen is parent in an amount of 25 425 mg N dose. 9. A vaccine according to claim 8 which comprises at least one encapsulated S. aureus capsular derived antigen. 10. The vaccine of claims 8 and 9 wherein the S. aureus strain is NL6 ATCC 31889, Smith ATCC 39129 or 2 8 ATCC 39126 . 11. The vaccine of Claims 1 10 wherein the adjuvant is mineral oil and contains emulsion enhancing amounts of a physiologically acceptable emulsifying agent. 12. The vaccine of Claims 1 11 which contains muramyl dipeptide or an analog thereof or a dimethyl dioctadecyl ammonium halide compound. 13. A method of preventing or controlling bovine mastitis in a bovine which comprises administering to said bovine the vaccine of Claims 1 12. 14. A method as in Claim 13 wherein the vaccine is administered a multiplicity of times over spaced intervals. 15. An enzyme linked immunoassay to detect staphylococcal antibodies in the milk of bovine vaccinated against bovine mastitis which comprises absorbing staphylococcal antigens on a solid phase and removing unabsorbed material contacting the absorbed antigen with a defatted bovine milk sample to absorb staphylococcal antibodies if present in the milk and removing unabsorbed material contacting the resultant absorbed material with an enzyme conjugated species specific anti IgG serum, specific to a particular staphylococcal antibody sought to be measured to react with the absorbed staphylococcal antibody and removing unabsorbed materials contacting the resultant absorbed material with a reactive substrate which yields a measurable reaction product and measuring the measurable reaction product thereby indirectly determining the amount of the specific staphylococcal antibody, sought to be detected, absorbed on the substrate. 16. An enzyme linked immunoassay to detect streptococcal antibodies in milk of a bovine vaccinated against bovine mastitis which comprises absorbing antistreptococcal Ig on a solid phase and removing unabsorbed material contacting the absorbed anti streptococcal Ig with streptococcal antigen to form a complexed antigen antibody and removing unabsorbed material contacting the absorbed antigen antibody complex with a defatted bovine milk sample to absorb streptococcal antibodies if present in the milk and removing unabsorbed material contacting the resultant absorbed material with an enzyme conjugated species specific anti IgG serum, specific to a particular streptococcal antibody sought to be measured, to react with the absorbed streptococcal antibody and removing unabsorbed material contacting the resultant absorbed material with a reactive substrate which yields a measurable reaction product thereby indirectly determining the amount of the specific streptococcal antibody, sought to be detected, absorbed on the substrate. 17. A process for preparing a vaccine of any one of claims 1 to 6, which comprises combining one or more active ingredient components containing per dose in total combination a bovine mastitis preventing or controlling amount of at least one of a at least one encapsulated S. aureus antigen derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated S. aureus strain prepared by growing said organism in an appropriate medium under appropriate conditions and time, i inactivating the cells or ii recovering the cells, inactivating the cells, and separating the antigen or iii recovering the cells, separating the antigen, and inactivating the antigen or iv recovering the cells, concentrating the antigen and inactivating the antigen b at least one unencapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated S. aureus strain prepared by growing said organism for a suitable time in a suitable medium under suitable conditions, recovering the cells, separating the antigen or concentrating the solution, and inactivating the antigen c at least one of Str. agalactiae antigen derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated Str. agalactiae the antigen being derived from at least one of inactivated Str. agalactiae, Type I Ia or Ib or Ic or mixtures , Type II and Type III prepared by growing said organism, harvesting the cells, recovering the antigen and inactivating the antigen and mixing at least one antigen with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle optionally containing an adjuvant. 18. A process for preparing a vaccine of any one of claims 7 to 10 which comprises growing the organism in an appropriate medium under appropriate conditions and time and a recovering the cells, inactivating the cells, and separating the antigen or b recovering the cells, separating the antigen, and inactivating the antigen or c recovering the cells, concentrating the antigen and inactivating the antigen and mixing at least one antigen with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle optionally containing an adjuvant.

## Description
BOVINE MASTITIS VACCINE, PROCESS FOR PREPARING IT, AND METHOD FOR DETECTING EFFICACY THEREOF Bovine mastitis, an inflammation or an infection of the bovine mammary gland or udder, is a serious problem to the fluid milk industry. Various microorganisms are associated with mastitis. However, a large proportion of these intramammary infections are caused by gram positive cocci and specifically Streptococcus agalactiae andStaphyloccus aureus. Treatment and prophylaxis of mastitis encompasses milking machine management, test hygiene and antibiotic therapy. Vaccination has been attempted in numerous reports see, for examPle, Schalm et al Bovine Mastitis , Lea and Febeger, Philadelphia,Pa., 1971 and Janovics et al, Jour. So. Afric. Vet.Assoc., 48 155 161 1977 . These attempts have been met with mixed success and failure, but have never given protection adequate to base a sound control program upon their economical use. Likewise no assay existed based upon which knowledgable decisions as to vaccination efficacy and duration could be based. A significant review of the status of bovine mastitis research, as of 1977, in Volume 170 ofJ.A.V.M.A. wherein the entire volume reports papers given at a colloquium on bovine mastitis. At a practical level, mastitis vaccination is at least partially effective in preventing the establishment the new infections, but more commonly has been associated with decreasing the severity of the disease. One of the factors which has contributed to the essential inadequacy of vaccination under field conditions is that the area pertaining to the ingredients necessary for an effective vaccine has been insufficiently investigated, in terms of the response of the gland itself. The methods availahle for detection of a specific immune reaction in the lactating gland have been inadequate with respect to sensitivity, specificity and discernment of Ig class involved in the response.Consequently, there is no information available on the immunogenicity of various antigens and preparation of these antigens in relation to their effects on the gland. Certainly it is not valid to extrapolate that the systemic immunological response to a vaccine is applicable in the lactating mammary gland. This invention relates to a vaccine for the prevention and or control of gram positive cocci, e.g.Str. agalactiae and and S. aureus, induced bovine mastitis infections and to an immunological method, an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA , for assaying the humoral immune response of the lactating bovine mammary gland to detect antibody variables associated with the vaccinated or suspected infected bovine. A preferred embodiment comprises a mixture of active ingredients in combination with a specific adjuvant. Experimental results indicate that the adjuvant substantially enhances the efficacy of the vaccine over the efficacy of the same active ingredients, alone or in combination with other previously suggested adjuvants. Likewise, the use of optional amounts of the active ingredients in conjunction with the adjuvant enhances efficacy of the vaccine. In a first aspect this invention provides a vaccine effective for the prevention and or control of gram positive cocci caused bovine mastitis which comprises an active ingredient component containing per dose in total combination a bovine mastitis preventing or controlling amount of at least one of a at least one encapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated and inactivatedS. aureus strain or b at least one unencapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated and inactivatedS. aureus strain and c at least one of Str. agalactjiae antigen derived from a bovine isolated inactivated Str.agalactiae the antigen being derived from at least one inactivated Str. agalactiae, Type I Ia or Ib or Ic or mixtures thereof , Type II and Type III optionally containing an adjuvant and suspended or dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. In a preferred embodiment the vaccine of this invention comprises an active ingredient component containing per dose a at least one encapsulated encapsulated S.aureus antigen which is a somatic and capsular derived antigen derived from a bovine isolated inactivated S.aureus strain in an amount sufficient to contribute at least about 25,. preferably between about 100 120 and usually not more than about 425 mg N per dose the preferred antigen being one derived from S. aureus strainNL6 ATCC 31885 , Smith ATCC39125 or 2 8 ATCC39126 b at least one unencapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated inactivated S. aureus in an amount sufficient to contribute at least about 25, preferably between 100 120 and usually not more than about 425 mg N per dose the preferred antigen being at least one or more antigens preferably derived from both of S. aureus strains IR1 ATCC 31886 and T33 ATCC 31 87 c at least one staphyloccal a hemolysin toxoid, usually in an amount sufficient to contribute at least about 0.5, preferably between about 0.8 1.2 and usually not more than about 2 mg N per dose the presently preferred a hemolysin toxoid being derived from S. aureus strain Wood 46 ATCC 10832 d at least one staphylococcal ss hemolysin toxoid, usually in anLamount sufficient to contribute at least about 1, preferably between 1.3 1.7, and usually not more than about 2.5 mg N per dose the presently preferred staphyloccal ss hemolysin toxoid being derived from S. aureus strain SS 697 ATCC 31888 e at least one staphylococcal gamma hemolysin toxoid, usually in an amount sufficient to contribute at least about 0.5, preferably between about 0.8 1.2, and usually not more than about 2 mg N per dose the presently preferred gamma hemolysin toxoid, being derived from S. aureus strain 5R ATCC 31889, f at least one staphylococcal derived leucocidin toxoid, usually in an amount sufficient to contribute at least about 1, preferably between 1.3 1.7, and usually not more than about 2.5 mg N per dose the present source for obtaining leucocidin being S. aureus strain P83 ATCC 31890 t and g at least one Str. agalactiae the antigen being derived fran at least one and preferably mixtures, preferably of all three of inactivated Str. agalactiae, Type I Ia or Ib or Ic or mixtures, preferably all three of Ia, Ib and c , Type II and Type III the total amount of each of said Str. agalactiae antigen usually being present in an amount sufficient to contribute at least about 17, preferably between about 60 80, and usually no more than about 280 mg N per dose. In still yet another aspect this invention provides a process for preparing a vaccine which is effective for the prevention and or control of gram positive cocci caused bovine mastitis which comprises combining one or more active ingredient components containing per dose in total combination a bovine mastitis preventing or controlling amount of at least one of a at least one encapsulated S. aureus antigen derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated S. aureus strain prepared by growing said organism in an appropriate medium under appropriate conditions and time, i inactivating the cells or ii recovering the cells, inactivating the cells, and separating the antigen or iii recovering the cells, separating the antigen, and inactivating the antigen or iv recovering the cells, concentrating the antigen and inactivating the antigen b at least one unencapsulated S. aureus antigen which is derived from a bovine isolated and inactivatedS. aureus strain prepared by growing said organism for a suitable time in a suitable medium under suitable conditions, recovering the cells, separating the antigen or concentrating the solution, and inactivating the antigen c at least one of Str. agalactiae antigen derived from a bovine isolated and inactivated Str.agalactiae the antigen being derived from at least one of inactivated Str. agalactiae, Type I Ia or Ib or Ic or mixtures , Type II and Type III prepared by growing said organism, harvesting the cells, recovering the antigen and inactivating the antigen and mixing at least one antigen with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle optionally containing an adjuvant. Preferred embodiments for vaccines prepared according to these processes are the same as described above. While the preferred vaccine, for broad applicability, contains effective amounts of each of the above listed components, useful vaccines can be provided where only one or at least less than all of the bactrins and or toxoids are employed. Particularly useful vaccines, especially adapted for a specific locale can be adapted where the causative agent or agents have been isolated and the materials used, tailored to combat that agent or the manifestations of the disease caused thereby. Likewise the antigens employed may even be derived from cultures of the specific bacteria present. As employed herein in total combination a bovine mastitis preventing or controlling amount is that amount of an active material when used in conjunction with the other active materials enumerated above and present which prevents infection and or reduces the clinical manifestations of the diseases, for example, reduces bacteria cell counts in the milk and or physiological manifestations in the bovine as compared, for example, to a control group. The vaccine of the invention comprises the above active ingredients in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle, preferably in aqueous dispersion typically about 2 to 4 ml, preferably about 2.5 ml, per dose alone or with an adjuvant. For example, the antigen may be emulsified with mineral oil, preferably together with emulsion enhancing amounts of a physiologically acceptable emulsifying agent, and with or without the addition of components which are known to stimulate mediated immune responses, such as muramyl dipeptide or its analogs and dimethyl dioctadecyl ammonium compounds, and the like, in order to provide enhanced vaccine response in animals. Oily adjuvants comprising mineral oil and emulsifiers such as mannide monooleate and lanolin are known in the art as incomplete Freund s adjuvants and are known in certain cases to enhance vaccine efficacy see, for example, British Veterinary Codex 1965, Supplement 1970, pages 83 86 . A presently preferred incompleteFreund s adjuvant comprising 158 Arlacel A mannide monooleate and 85 Bayol F paraffin oil . The amount of mineral oil employed, if employed, is at least that amount necessary to obtain enhanced vaccine efficacy, and should be an amount which forms an emulsion which remains sufficiently stable so as not to significantly separate for several hours after mixing.If separation does occur between mixing and use, typically the layers may be reemulsified by vigorous agitation prior to use. Typically about equal volumes of aqueous active materials and mineral oil. with an emulsion enhancing amount of an emulsifier are employed to form reasonably stable useful emulsion, although volume ratios of 1 4 to 4 1 may be employed, for example. The vaccines of the invention are administered to a bovine in bovine mastitis preventing or controlling amounts, preferably in at least two time sequenced doses, preferably separated by one to four, preferably about three weeks. The vaccine is administered by systemic injection, other than orally or intravenously, preferably by injection in the vicinity of a lymph node, most preferably the external inguinal lymph node. In addition to the above vaccine, the invention also relates to the use of enzyme linked immunoassay in the control of bovine mastitis to detect the presence of or change in levels of specific antibody of each immunoglobulin class associated with immunity to bovine mastitis provided by the above described vaccine in the milk of vaccinated bovine. The enzyme linked immunoassay of the invention in one aspect comprises absorbing staphylococcal antigens on a solid phase and removing unabsorbed material contacting the absorbed antigen with a defatted bovine milk sample to absorb staphylococcal antibodies if present in the milk and removing unabsorbed material contacting the resultant absorbed material with an enzyme conjugated species specific anti IgG serum, specific to a particular staphylococcal antibody sought to be measured to react with the absorbed staphyloccal antibody and removing unabsorbed materials contacting the resultant absorbed material with a reactive substrate which yields a measurable reaction product and measuring the measurable reaction product thereby indirectly determining the amount of the specific staphylococcal antibody, sought to be detected, absorbed on the substrate. The enzyme linked immunoassay of the invention in another aspect Figure 2 comprises absorbing anti streptococcal Ig on a solid phase and removing unabsorbed material contacting the absorbed anti streptococcal Ig with streptococcal antigen to form a complexed antigen antibody and removing unabsorbed material contacting the absorbed antigen antibody complex with a defatted bovine milk sample to absorb streptococcal antibodies if present in the milk and removing unabsorbed material contacting the resultant absorbed material with an enzyme conjugated species specific anti IgG serum, specific to a particular streptococcal antibody sought to be measured, to react with the absorbed streptococcal antibody and removing unabsorbed material contacting the resultant absorbed material with a reactive substrate which yields a measurable reaction product thereby indirectly determining the amount of the specific streptococcal antibody sought to be detected, absorbed on the substrate. In the drawings Figure 1 graphically represents comparative ELISA valuse for IgG in milk specific for staphlyococcal a hemolysin. Cows 1964 and 1902 were subjected to staphacoccal bacterin toxoid stimulation. Cow 2004 was a saline control. Milk samples were uniformily diluted 1 6 in PBS T. Figure 2 graphically represents comparative ELISA values for IgG in milk specific for staphylococcal a hemolysin. Cows 2022 and 2228 were subjected to staphylococcal bacterin toxoid stimulation. Cow 1635 was a saline control. Figure 3 graphically represents comparative ELISA values for IgG in milk specific for staphylococcal a hemolysin. Cow 1586 and cow 2936 were subjected to staphylococcal bacterin toxoid stimulation. Cow 1923 was a saline control. MATERIALS AND METHODSBACTERIN TOXOID PREPARATIONS PREPARATION I S. aureus strain 305 was grown in trypticase soy broth Becton, Dickinson, and Co., Cockeysville, MD for 18 hours, centrifuged, washed with sterile saline, and inactivated bacteria were washed and resuspended in sterile saline, and inactivated by suspension in 0.3 formolized saline for 5 days at 250C. The inactivated bacteria were washed and resuspended in sterile saline. PREPARATION II Encapsulated S. aureus strain NL6 ATCC 31,885 was prepared as follows. Seed cultures were grown on a high salt and carbohydrate content medium1 here staphylococcus medium 110 into Laboratories, Detroit, MI agar plates and then suspended in sterile saline and inoculated onto the surface of 110 media prepared in glass Roux flasks.Incubation was for 24 hours at 370C in an air incubator. Harvesting was carried out by washing bacteria off the agar surface with 0.3 formolized saline using sterile beads. PREPARATION III S. aureus strain 305 ATCC 29740 was used to produce staphyloccal somatic antigen. An 18 hour culture was grown, harvested, and washed as described in preparation I. The organisms harvested from two liters of culture media were suspended in 50 ml of sterile saline and subjected to 30 minutes of ultrasonic disruption. A Model S220 sonifier Branson InstrumentsInc., Danbury, CT with a maximum probe size, at maximum energy settings was used for this purpose. The bacterial suspension was maintained below 300C. by means of an icebath, throughout the procedure. Following sonication, the preparation was centrifuged at 1700 g for 45 minutes and the resulting pellet was discarded. Proceeding in a simiRiar manner, but substitutingStrain NL66 or a similiarly appropriate encapsulated S.aureus strain and using the culture methods and medium outlined in preparation II, capsular and somatic antigen containing preparations may be obtained. PREPARATION IV Staphylococcal a hemolysin was produced using S.aureus strain 305 following the method described byCoulter J. Bacteriol., 92 1655 1662 1966 . Heart infusion broth Difco Labratories, Detroit, MI was inoculated with a seed culture and incubated at 370C for 18 hours on a rotary shaker in an aerobic enviroment. Bacteria were removed from the medium by centrifugation at OOC, the supernatant collected and fully cooled to OOC. A 0.45 micron filter was used to filter the supernatant. The filtrate was adjusted to pH 4.0 with glacial acetic acid after which methanol chilled to 300C was added to a final concentration of 25 v v . This was followed by refrigeration at 40C for 4 hours without agitation. Formed precipitate was collected by centrifugation and resuspended in 0.15M sodium acetate and recentrifuged. Any remaining precipitate was discarded, the supernatant sterile filtered, dialized against water overnight and again sterile filtered.Inactivation was by heat, for example at about 560C for about 30 minutes. PREPARATION V Staphylococcal beta hemolysin toxoid was prepared from S. aureus strain SS 697 ATCC 31888 by inoculatingTodd Hewitt broth Becton, Dickinson and Co.,Cockeysville, MD with seed culture and statically culturing the medium for 48 hours at 370C in an aerobic incubator. Bacteria were removed by centrifugation and the supernatant passed through a 0.45 micron filter. The toxin containing filtrate was stabilized with 0.1M zinc sulfate, 0.0lM magnesium sulfate and 2 mercaptoethanol inPBS. If desired, the solution may be concentrated by ultra filtration, for example with an Amicon filter unit using a XM50 membrane. Inactivation was by beat at about 560C for about 30 minutes. PREPARATION VI S. aureus derived leucocidin were prepared by growing up a culture of S. aureus strain P83 cells in CCY media made according to Bladstone and Van Heyningen British J. Experimental Path., Vol XXXVIII, p 123 37, 1957 by incubating with agitation for 18 hours at 370C in an aerobic incubator. Bacteria were removed by centrifugation and the toxin precipitated with ammonium sulfate. Alternatively, the crude supernatant was concentrated by ultrafiltration. The resulting solution was sterile filtered using a 0.45 micron filter.Leucocidin was inactivated by the addition of formaldehyde to a final concentration of 0.58 v v at pH 6.5. PREPARATION VII Str. aglactiae preparations were carried out using the following procedure which is applicable to all Str.aglactiae herein. Str. agalactiae type III was grown inTodd Hewitt broth Difco Laboratories, Detroit, Mich , which was modified according to Baker et al Baker et al,J. Exper. Med., 143 258 270 1976 i. The organisms were harvested by centrOfugation at 1700 g and washed in sterile saline. The streptococcal group and type antigen was extracted using the neutral buffer method described by Baker et al for the preparation of native type III antigen Baker et al, J. Exper. Med., 143 258 270 1976 3. That is, pelleted organisms were suspended in a buffer containing 0.05 M sodium phosphate, 0.15 M HC1 and 0.01 M EDrA adjusted to pH 7.4. This suspension of organisms was stirred with glass beads at 240C for 15 hours.Washed cells were then removed by centrifugation at 12,000 g and the supernatant solution was filtered to remove residual bacteria by means of a Millipore membrane 0.45 microns . This preparation contained both Group B and type III immunoligical activity on microimmunodiffusion. Inactivation was by means of suspension in 0.3 formolized saline at 240C for 4 days. EXAMPLE IELISA Test An indirect ELISA test system was considered for adaptation for the staphylococcal antigens Voller et al, The enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA , DynatechEurope, Borough House, Rue du Pre, Guernsey, G.B. 1979 illustrated in Figure 1. Essential principles are as follows Antigen is adsorbed by incubation to a solid phase, unabsorbed antigen being removed by washing.Samples to be evaluated for antibody are added and incubated. Antibody which has not reacted with the antigen is washed out, and an enzyme conjugated, species specific, anti IgG serum is added and incubated. Unreacted conjugated antiserum is again removed by washing and a substrate is added. The substrate is hydrolyzed by the enzyme, if present, resulting in a color change which may be read spectophotometrically. The degree of substrate hydrolysis is directly proportional to the amount of antibody bound to the antigen. Streptococcal group and type antigens are carbohydrate in nature and adsorb poorly to the polystyrene solid phase. A modified ELISA system was therefore considered for use with the streptococci. This system is illustrated in Figure 2. It is an adaptation of the method described by Voller et al for the measurement of antigen Vollet et al, supra . The essential modification here is the addition of a step which involves initial adsorption of anti streptococcalGroup B and type III Igs to the solid phase followed by washing, addition of antigen and incubation. The complexed antigen antibody then forms the antigen phase for the test. The remainder of the test is carried out as described previously for the indirect method. An inocolum in sterile saline was prepared using S.aureus strain 305 prepared as per preparation I and staphylococcus a hemolysin prepared in accordance with preparation IV. The final concentration of bacteria in the inoculum was 1.8x108 cells per ml. The final concentration of a hemolysin in the inoculum was 2,4I.U. per ml.Animals Nine lactating Holstein Friesian cows were randomly allocated to two groups of 6 and 3 animals each.Clinical evaluation revealed no evidence of udder inflammation. S. aureus was not isolated from lacteal secretions. Table 1 outlines the lactation status of the animals. TABLE 1 Lactation Status of the Experimental Animals Days Postpartum Lactation on Day 0 Cow Number Number of ExperimentGroup Ia 2022 4 10 1902 3 21 1586 4 28 2228 2 28 1964 3 26 2036 2 14 Group 11b 1635 4 16 2004 3 39 1934 3 31 a Group I Experimental animals subjected to bacterin toxoid stimulation.b Group II Control animals receiving saline.Immunization Procedure The 6 cows which received antigen were inoculated with 10 ml of the preparation described above on days 0, 4, 8, 12, 16 and 20 of the experiment. Immunization, by means of an 18 gauge 1 1 2 inch needle, was in the region of the external inguinal lymph node, alternating between the right and the left. The 3 control animals received 10 ml of sterile saline using the same regime. Sampling Procedure Milk samples were taken aseptically from all four quarters of each cow, prior to and at intervals following immunization. All samples were taken before evening milking. Following microbiological culture of each quarter, the samples were centrifuged at 300 g for 15 minutes and the milk was aspirated from below the fat layer. Composite samples were made up for each cow, which represented all four quarters. Samples were stored at 200C. Microbiological Culture Approximately 0.1 ml of each quarter sample was plated on an esculin bovine blood agar plate and incubated at 370C. for 24 hours. Microbiological identification was based on colony morphology, hemolytic pattern, Gram strain and where relevant, the cAMP test and tube coagulase test Microbiological procedures for the diagnosis of bovine mastitis, National MastitisCouncil, Washington, D.C., University of New Bampshire Press 1969 . Hemolytic Assay Hemolytic assays were carried out on the milk samples using staphylococcal a hemolysin BurroughsWelcome, Greenville, NC and 2 washed sheep red blood cells. The method employed was that described byBurroughs Well come. Anti staphylococcal a hemolysin Burroughs Wellccme, Greenville, NC was used as a control.Preparation of Antigens for ELISA Three antigen preparations were examined. One contained staphylococcal a hemolysin, the second somatic antigen from S. aureus strain 305 and thirdly Str.aglactiae type III, all prepared as described in the preparations above. Each was filtered using 0.45 micron pore size filters Nalge Co., Rochester, NY and subsequently dialyzed against 0.06M carbonate buffer pH 9.6 Slanetz et al, Am.J.Cet.Res, 26 688 695 1965 .Protein and Carbohydrate content of ELISA antigens Protein content was determined as mg N ml by means of Kjeldahl nitrogen determination Baker et al,J.Exper.Med, 143 258 270 1976 . Carbohydrate content was determined by the Indole test using microgram glucose ml as a standard Williams et al, Methods inImmunology and Immunochemistry, II Acad. Press, NY, p.187 1968 .General ELISA Procedures ELISA was performed by adaptation of the basic procedure guidelines described by Bullock and Walls bullock et al, J.Infect.Dis., 136 Supplem. Oct. 1977 .The tests were carried out using an EIA autanatic analyzer Gilford Instrument Laboratories Inc., Oberlin,OH . The solid phase used was a polystrene cuvette system Gilford Instrument Laboratories Inc., Oberlin, OH which consisted of 10 wells in 5 cuvette strips. The buffer for coating the cuvettes with antigen was 0.06M carbonate buffer pH 9.6 C03 buffer . Coating with antigen was carried out by 4 hour incubations at 370C. followed by storage of plates overnight at 400C. All incubations in the test were carried out in air incubator at 370C. Washing throughout the procedure was carried out by 5 washes using 0.01 M phosphate buffered saline, pH 7.2, containing 0.5 Tween 20 PBS T Fisher Scientific Co.,Fair Lawn, NJ . Enzyme conjugated antisera used were the IgG fractions of anti species IgG heavy and light chains conjugated with the enzyme peroxidase CapelLaboratories, Cochranville, PA . The substrate for the enzyme was 2,2 azino di 3 ethyl benzthiazoline 6 sulphonic acid ABTS Sigma Chemical Co., Saint Louis, MO prepared according to the method described by Saunders et al Saunders et al, LosAlamos Sci. Lab. Univ. Calif. Prog. Rep. LA 7078 PR 1 1978 1. The substrate was dispensed and the plate was shaken for 30 seconds on a Cooke micro shaker DynatchLaboratories, Inc., Alexandria, VA . The degree of substrate catalysis was determined by reading absorbance at 405 nm. A constant interval of 5 minutes was allowed to elapse between dispensing of substrate and reading of each individual sample. The standard volume of all reagents in the test was 0.4 ml unless otherwise specified.Titration of ELISA antigens Chequer board titration of the staphylococcal and streptococcal antigens were carried out in an ELISA system in order to determine the optimal antigen concentrations to be used in subsequent tests fVoller et al, The enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA ,Dynatech Europe, Burrough House, Rue du Pre, Guernsey,B.G. 1979 . Titration of the 2 staphylococcal antigens was carried out in an indirect test system. Serial dilutions of each antigen were made in CO3 buffer, added in repeating vertical rows to the cuvette wells, and incubated for 4 hours at 370C. and stored overnight at 4 C. The cuvettes were then washed. Reference positive sera from hyperimmunized rabbits was serially diluted inPBS T and added to the cuvette wells in repeating horizontal rows. Each serum dilution was therefore reacted with each antigen dilution. Incubation was for 40 minutes. Following washing, peroxidase conjugated IgG fraction of goat anti rabbit IgG heavy and lights chains Cappel Laboratories, Cochranville, PA was added to each well at a solution of 1 500 in PBS T and incubated for 40 minutes. Unreacted conjugated antisera was washed out. The substrate was added and evaluated as described above for General ELISA Procedures. The streptococcal group and type specific antigen is carbohydrate in nature and did not adhere to polystyrene cuvettes as readily as the staphylococcal protein antigens. In order to optimize adsorption of the streptococcal extract antigen, it was necessary to adapt the modified double antibody sandwich ELISA described byVoller et al for measurement of antigen Voller et al, The enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA , DynatechEurope, Borrough House, Rue du Pre, Guernsey, G.B. 1979 . Antibodies to the Group B, type III antigens were raised in rabbits by hyperimmunization with a bacterin following the method described by Lancefield et al Jour. Exper. Med., 59 441 447 1934 . Igs were precipitated fran this serum with 35 saturated ammonium sulfate Hebert et al, App Micro., 25 26 36 1972 .The precipitated Igs were serially diluted in the carbonate buffer, added in repeating vertical rows to the cuvette wells and incubated for 4 hours. The cuvettes were washed and streptococcal extract antigen, serially diluted in PBS T was added to the cuvette wells in repeating horizontal rows. Each Ig dilution was therefore reacted with each antigen dilution. Incubation for 1 hour was followed by washing. Reference positive antiserum fran hyperimmunized guinea pigs was added to each cuvette well at a dilution of 1 50 in PBS T. A further 1 hour incubation was again followed by washing. Peroxidase conjugated IgG fraction of goat anti guinea pig IgG heavy and light chains Cappel Laboratories, Cochranville, PA diluted 1 500 inPBS T was added to each well and incubated for 40 minutes. Unreacted conjugated antisera was washed out.The substrate addition and evaluation was carried out as described above for General ELISA Procedures. ELISA Procedure for Assaying Milk Antibody The test system for the staphylococcal antigens somatic and a hemolysin was indirect. The staphylococcal antigens, diluted in carbonate buffer at predetermined optimal concentrations, were adsorbed to the cuvette wall by means of a 4 hour incubation followed by overnight storage at 40C. Milk samples to be assayed were diluted in PBS T either serially or at a dilution of 1 6. Three tenths of an ml of these samples were incubated in the antigen coated washed wells for 40 minutes. Following washing, peroxidase conjugated IgG fraction rabbit anti bovine IgG heavy and light chains Cappel Laboratories, Cochranville, PA diluted 1 500 inPBS T was dispensed into each well and incubated for 40 minutes. After a final wash, substrate was dispensed and evaluated as described under General ELISA Procedures. The test system for the streptococcal Group B type III extract antigen was modified double antibody sandwich ELISA as illustrated in Figure 2. The precipitated Igs containing specificity for streptococcal group and type antigens were diluted to the predetermined optimal concentration in carbonate buffer and adsorbed to the cuvette wells by means of a 4 hour incubation followed by overnight storage at 40C. StreptococcalGroup B, type III antigen was added diluted to the predetermined optimal concentration in PBS T and incubated for 40 minutes. The test was carried out subsequently as described above. All milk samples were subjected to 4 analyses and results are expressed as the mean. S. aureus was not isolated from any sample during the experimental period. Streptococcus species other than Str. agalactiae were isolated intermittently during the experiment. The hemolytic assays on the milk samples were insufficiently sensitive to allow for reading of a titre. The results of the chequer board antigen titrations are shown in Table 2 staphylococcal a hemolysin Table 3 staphylococcal somatic antigen , and Table 4 streptococcal group and type . TABLE 2 Chequer Board Titration of Staphylococcal a Hemolysin to Determine Optimal Concentration for ESTSAa AntiserumbAntigen 1 10 1 20 1 40 1 80 1 160 1 8 2.110 1.703 1.411 1.036 0.878 1 16 1.976 1.614 1.326 1.029 0.787 1 32 2.079 1.706 1.422 1.118 0.876 1 64 2.165 1.334 1.474 1.075 0.829 1 128 1.926 1.665 1.481 1.063 0.789 1 256 1.895 1.670 1.462 1.067 0.830 1 512 1.828 1.647 1.419 1.053 0.795 1 800 1.974 1.650 1.291 0.963 0.741 1 1600 1.638 1.438 1.117 0.861 0.620 1 3200 1.463 1.170 0.887 0.739 0.472 1 6400 1.241 0.917 0.701 0.579 0.316 1 12800 1.043 0.810 0.587 0.400 0.281 1 25600 0.788 0.579 0.402 0.257 0.177 a Results expressed as absorbance values at 405 nm.b Antiserum raised in rabbits against staphylococcal a hemolysin. TABLE 3 Chequer Board Titration of Staphyloccal Somatic Antigen to Determine Optimal Concentration for ELISAa AntiserumbAntigen 1 10 1 20 1 40 1 80 1 160 1 4 2.680 2.680 2.681 2.051 1.403 1 8 2.680 2.680 2.681 2.042 1.161 1 16 2.680 2.680 2.681 1.925 1.056 1 32 2.680 2.680 2.681 1.849 1.083 1 64 2.680 2.680 2.681 1.758 1.068 1 128 2.680 2.680 2.543 1.676 0.920 1 256 2.681 2.680 2.291 1.546 0.853 1 512 2.681 2.671 1.782 1.260 0.751 1 1,024 2.328 2.035 1.439 0.922 0.682 1 2,048 1.764 1.538 0.980 0.655 0.779 a Results expressed as absorbance values at 405 nm.b Antiserum raised in rabbits against Staphylococcus aureus strain 305 bacterin. TABLE 4Chequer Board Titration of Group B, Type III StreptococalSystem to Determine Optimal Concentrations for ELISAaAnti streptocococcal Antigen Undiluted 1 10 1 20 1 40 1 80 1 160 1 320 1 640 1 20 1.983 1.656 1.735 1.856 1.788 1.194 0.910 0.782 1 40 2.025 1.826 1.843 2.017 1.893 1.293 1.252 0.790 1 80 1.921 1.882 1.912 1.950 1.810 1.388 1.134 0.863 1 160 1.983 1.966 2.089 2.228 2.121 1.684 1.404 1.090 1 320 2.013 2.078 2.127 2.273 2.079 1.799 1.573 1.198 1 640 1.855 1.927 2.090 2.086 1.970 1.697 1.471 1.148 1 1280 1.692 1.786 1.917 1.883 1.855 1.299 1.120 0.401 1 2560 1.319 1.312 1.390 1.409 1.332 0.537 0.483 1 5120 0.850 0.483 0.553 0.639 0.560 0.313 0.373 1 10240 0.853 0.469 0.293 0.293 0.277 0.425 0.140 a Results expressed as absorbance values at 405 nm. b Antiserum raised in rabbits against Str. agalactiae type III. Igs precipitated using 35 saturated ammonium sulfate. Antiserum raised in guinea pigs against Str. agalactiae type III used on all wells at a dilution of 1 50. Absorbance values for the 2 staphylococcal antigens remained stable for each antiserum dilution until the antigen concentration became a limiting factor in the test system. In the case of the a hemolysin, this occurred following the 1 512 dilution and in the case of the somatic antigen, it occurred following the 1 64 dilution. Subsequently the a hemolysin preparation was used in tests at a dilution of 1 400 in carbonate buffer and the somatic antigen was used at a dilution of 1 50 in carbonate buffer. The rabbit anti streptococcal Igs showed an apparent Zprozone phenanena at high concentrations. This was evident at dilutions of 1 20 to 1 80 where absorbance values exhibited a tendency to increase. A plateau effect was seen from 1 160 through 1 640 for all the dilutions of the streptococcal extract antigen.Subsequently the absorbance values declined with increasing dilutions indicating that the anti streptococcal Igs had become a limiting factor in the reaction. The Ig preparation was subsequently used in tests at a dilution of 1 300 in carbonate buffer. The concentration of the streptococcal antigen became a limiting factor in the test system at a dilution of 1 80 since the absorbance values decreased with further dilutions. The antigen was used in subsequent tests at a dilution of 1 50 in PBS T.Titration of Milk samples The results of titration of positive milk samples when graphed as mean and standard error of absorbance values at 405 nm are linear. Therefore, a suitable dilution of 1 6 in PBS T was selected for subsequent evaluation of milk samples.Immunization experiment Results of the ELISA s from the 9 cow immunization experiment are shown in Figures 1 3. Each milk sample was tested on 4 occasions and the results are expressed as the mean of the absorbance value at 405 nm 1 standard deviation. Using a standard staphylococcal a hemolysin preparation Burroughs Wellcome, Greenville,NC as described, an absorbance value of 1.0 at 405 nm obtained in an ELISA system was estimated to be equivalent to 0.06 I.U. of anti a hemolysin activity per ml of milk. Each of the 3 Figures show 2 animals which received inoculations of the antigenic preparation versus one control animal which received saline. Control animals 1934, 1635, and 2004 showed no significant variation inIgG specific for stapphylococcal a hemolysin over the 84 day experimental period. The 6 inoculated animals showed a variable IgG response in terms of both the rate of developnent of the antibody response and the level attained. Peak levels were reached over the period of day 18 to day 34, cows number 2228, 3036 and cow number 1902 being the first and last to peak, respectively. The rate of antibody decline was also variable. By day 84, 64 days following the last inoculation, all cows had returned to preinoculation levels. Ninety percent of bovine mastitis is caused by theGram positive cocci. It seems that a major component of the mammary glands defense against these pathogens is antibody mediated Nor cross, J.A.V.M.A., 170 1228 1231 1977 . Studies of the immune response of the gland with a view to immunization should, therefore, be geared towards analysis of the efficacy of various stimuli in the production of specific antibodies within the gland.In order to effectively assess various methods of immunization, a method of assay for Igs is necessary which is sensitive, specific and discerns rns the relative contribution of each class to the response. ELISA fulfills these requirements and has been shown to be adaptable for use as an assay of an immune response in the lactating mammary gland. EXAMPLE II This Example relates to the antibody response in milk following immunization with increasing concentrations of staphlococcal and streptococcal antigens. It seemed appropriate that a rationale for the usage of a particular vaccine system should be established prior to attempts to assess its protective efficacy. In the investigation of mastitis vaccines as reported in the literature, no reference has been made to a relative evaluation of the antigen mass used vaccine dosages employed appear to have been chosen empirically. A dose response experiment was, therefore, carried out using S.aureus and Str. agalactiae antigens of known concentration. The humoral immune response of the lactating mammary gland to increasing concentrations of the relevant antigens was assessed by means of the ELISA. The S. aureus strain 305 bacterin and staphylococcal a hemolysin toxoid were produced and inactivated as described in preparations I and III except that StrainWood 46 was used for production of the toxin in place ofStrain 305. Str. agalactiae type III was grown and prepared for inoculation as described in preparation VIII. The inactivated organisms were washed twice in sterile saline and resuspended in the same dilutent. The concentration of the 3 antigen components for each group of cows is tabulated in Table 5. The vaccines were administered as a composite of the 3 antigen preparation. TABLE 5 Concentration of S. aureus, Str. agalactiae bacterins and toxoid staphylococcal a hemolysin administered to each group of cows a Vaccine Str. agalactiae S. aureus Staphyloccal a hemolysin Group CFU ml mg N ml CFU ml mg N ml mg N ml 1 Saline Saline Saline Saline Saline 2 l.4x107 0.08 6x107 0.13 0.005 3 1.3x108 0.88 6x108 1.37 0.05 4 5.6x108 3.50 2.4x109 5.48 0.1 5 2.24x109 14.0 9.6x101 21.9 0.2 6 8.9x109 56.3 3. 8x1010 87.6 0.4 a Concentrations of the antigens are expressed as colon forming units ml CFU ml and total mg N ml obtained Kjeldahl Nitrogen determination Kabat, Experimental Immunochemistry , 2nd ed., 1961, p. 476 483. C.C. Thomas, Illinois, U.S.A.1 Fifty two lactating Holstein Friesian cows were allocated randomly to 6 groups. There was no stratification of the animals on the basis of lactation stage, number, or previous history of mastitis. Cows which were dried off during the experimental period were excluded from data analysis. A 5 ml dose of the relevant vaccine preparation was inoculated into the region of the right external inguinal lymph node using an 18 gauge 1 1 2 inch needle. This was followed by a second inoculation in the region of the left lymph node, 21 days later. Quarter milk samples were collected aseptically as described previously in Example I. Sampling was carried out on 2 occasions prior to the first vaccination 6 and 8 days and subsequently every 14 days. Approximately 0.1 ml of each quarter sample was plated on an esculinbovine blood agar plate and incubated at 37 Deg. C. for 24 hours. Microbiological identification was based on the methods described by theNational Mastitis Council Microbiological procedures for the diagnosis of bovine mastitis , National MastitisCouncil, Washington, D.C., University of New HampshirePress 1969 . Following microbiological culture, samples were processed and stored for ELISA as described in Example I. Each milk sample was tested in duplicate in an ELISA system against each of 3 antigens. The 3 antigens used were staphylococcal somatic antigen, staphylococcal a hemolysin and streptococcal Group B type III antigen, prepared as described in Example I. The milk was diluted 1 6 in PBS T. Three tenths of an ml of this dilution was tested in ELISA. The procedure for ELISA was as described in Example I. S. aureus was not isolated from any milk sample during the course of the experiment. Animals which cultured positive for Str. agalactiae were excluded from the assessment of antibody levels specific for this bacteria on that sample date. Other bacteria which were isolated from the herd included Streptococcus species,Corynebacterium bovis and staphylococcus species. These isolates were not considered in relation to data processing unless the infected animals showed evidence of clinical mastitis. Cows developing clinical signs were excluded from data evaluation. The specific IgG responses of the groups of animals to each of the 3 antigens are set forth in Tables 13, 14 and 15. The tabulated results include in addition to the mean absorbance values, the standard error of the mean and the number of animals contributing to the sample s data. TABLE 6 Results of ELISA for quantitation of IgG in milk specific for staphylococcal a hemolysinaVaccine Sample Time Weeks Group 1b 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 17 1 x 0.211 0.243 0.208 0.365 0.310 0.331 0.210 0.180 0.125 S.E. 0.041 0.013 0.029 0.029 0. 036 0.033 0.030 0.025 0.028 n 11 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 2 x 0.217 0.548 0.483 0.487 0.419 0.372 0.284 0.283 0.236 S.E. 0.020 0.105 0.128 0.116 0.059 0.059 0.044 0.054 0.052 n 14 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 3 x 0.311 0.668 0.664 0.739 0.526 0.509 0.342 0.254 0.148 S.E. 0.040 0.100 0.060 0.059 0.060 0.058 0.060 0.051 0.046 n 16 7 8 7 7 7 7 5 5 4 x 0.243 0.718 0.854 0.749 0.592 0.492 0.331 0.304 0.223 S.E 0.027 0.073 0.129 0.069 0.044 0.052 0.031 0.043 0.059 n 20 10 9 10 10 10 10 10 10 5 x 0.235 0.868 1.011 0.978 0.798 0.598 0.413 0.428 0.177 S.E. 0.023 0.070 0.104 0.113 0.056 0.046 0.043 0.053 0.030 n 13 7 7 7 7 6 6 5 5 6 x 0.167 0.939 1.054 0.884 0.719 0.563 0.326 0.301 0.180 S.E. 0.048 0.095 0.056 0.085 0.083 0.091 0.053 0.042 0.043 n 10 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 5 a Results are expressed as absorbance at 405 nm. Vaccine was administered at time 0 and 3.Values for the preinoculation sample at time 1 are the mean of 2 samples per cow taken at 8 and 6 days prior to vaccination at time 0. TABLE 7 Results of ELISA for quantitation of IgG in milk specific for staphylococcal somatic antigenaVaccine Sample Time Weeks Group 1b 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 17 1 x 0.231 0.308 0.174 0.328 0.470 0.308 0.307 0.266 0.198 S.E. 0.024 0.021 0.024 0.036 0.022 0.036 0.035 0.045 0.018 n 11 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 2 x 0.262 0.392 0.497 0.374 0.345 0.422 0.408 0.376 0.259 S.E. 0.018 0.038 0.075 0.058 0.035 0.060 0.045 0.057 0.021 n 14 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 3 x 0.345 0.621 0.679 0.535 0.475 0.511 0.454 0.373 0.309 S.E. 0.027 0.073 0.073 0.036 0.045 0.081 0.045 0.050 0.036 n 16 8 8 7 7 7 7 7 5 4 x 0.250 0.573 0.746 0.544 0.467 0.438 0.434 0.377 0.333 S.E. 0.027 0.063 0.083 0.050 0.033 0.027 0.021 0.036 0.044 n 20 10 9 10 10 10 10 10 10 5 x 0.287 0.739 1.042 0.828 0.678 0.570 0.581 0.440 0.323 S.E. 0.022 0.080 0.071 0.089 0.051 0.050 0.065 0.048 0.041 n 13 7 7 7 7 6 6 5 5 6 x 0.257 0.718 1.005 0.702 0.663 0.505 0.464 0.444 0.277 S.E. 0.024 0.063 0.098 0.111 0.066 0.072 0.044 0.037 0.021 n 10 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 a Results are expressed as absorbance at 405 nm. Vaccine was administered at time 0 and 3. b Values for the preinoculation sample at time 1 are the mean of 2 samples per cow taken at 8 and 6 days prior to vaccination at time 0. TABLE 8 Results of ELISA for quantitation of IgG in milk specific for staphylococcal antigenaVaccine Sample Time Weeks Group 1b 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 17 1 x 0.357 0.313 0.419 0.551 0.420 0.384 0.319 0.425 0.349 S.E. 0.030 0.035 0.060 0.054 0.058 0. 039 0.035 0. 037 0.036 n 12 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 2 x 0.468 0.573 0.509 0.795 0.618 0.557 0.472 0.395 0.378 S.E. 0.046 0.076 0.037 0.062 0.066 0.065 0.065 0.040 0.036 n 15 7 7 7 7 7 6 7 7 3 x 0.512 0.540 0.598 0.922 0.612 0.526 0.489 0.342 0.458 S.E. 0.045 0.095 0.058 0.063 0.119 0.064 0.063 0.068 0.110 n 13 7 7 6 6 6 6 4 5 4 x 0.536 0.537. 0.911 1.301 0.885 0.730 0.608 0.578 0.399 S.E. 0.052 0.050 0.078 0.085 0.078 0.062 0.070 0.099 0.033 n 18 9 8 9 9 9 9 7 8 5 x 0.516 0.659 1.335 1.727 1.153 0.916 0.807 0.871 0.583 S.E. 0.060 0.062 0.108 0.185 0.093 0.136 0.142 0.216 0.093 n 12 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 6 x 0.569 06854 1.334 1.686 1.240 0.971 0.693 0.757 0.680 S.E. 0.037 0.048 0.143 0.185 0.162 0.125 0.049 0.073 0.075 n 10 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 5 a Results are expressed as absorbance at 405 nm. Vaccine was administered at time 0 and 3. Values for the preinoculation sample at time 1 are the mean of 2 samples per cow taken at 8 and 6 days prior to vaccination at time 0. Pre inoculation levels at 1 week are expressed as the mean of 2 samples taken with a 2 day interval. these values are extrapolated as straight lines until inoculation takes place at time 0. Group 1, which received saline, did not vary significantly in antibody levels throughout the experiment with respect to all 3ELISA antigens. The specific IgG response in milk to staphylococcal sanatic antigen is shown in Table 7. The sample taken 2 weeks after the first inoculation already showed significant increases in the milk antibody levels of groups 3 through 6. Peak responses occurred 4 weeks after the first inoculation. Fran the peak levels at 4 weeks, there was a steady decline of antibody levels in all groups. By 12 to 14 weeks, groups 2 through 4 again became negative using the reference line as a basis for comparison. By the same criteria, at 14 to 17 weeks, groups 5 and 6 also returned to a negative status.Statistical analysis of the peak response at 4 weeks by means of the student t test indicated that there was no significant statistical difference between Groups 5 and 6, but that Group 5 differed from Group 4 at the 0.02 level of significance. The specific IgG response in milk to staphylococcal a hemolysin is shown in Table 6. The sample taken 2 weeks after the first inoculation, showed significant increase in the levels of antibody of all vaccinated groups. Peak responses occurred at 4 weeks in Groups 4 through 6. Groups 2 and 3 peak at 2 and 6 weeks, respectively. Although the peak levels were maintained for a longer time than in the case of the somatic antigen approximately 4 weeks , the rate of antibody decline after the 6th week was such that by weeks 10 to 12, all groups except for 5 had returned to negative levels. By weeks 14 to 17, all groups had fallen below the reference line.Statistical analysis of the peak response at 4 weeks by means of the student t test indicated that the difference between Groups 4, 5 and 6 was not statistically significant, but that Group 3 differed fromGroup 5 at the 0.02 level of significance. The specific IgG response in milk to streptococcalGroup B type III antigen is shown in Table 8. Vaccine groups 5 and 6 were the only 2 groups to have increased above the reference line by week 2 of the experiment. By week 4, Groups 4 and 6 showed significant increases in antibody levels. The lower dose levels of Groups 2 and 3 seemed to require a second inoculation week 3 before an antibody repsponse was seen at week 6. The peak levels of all groups occurred 6 weeks after the first inoculation. By week 8, Groups 2 and 3 were again negative. By week 12, Group 4 was negative and by week 17, Group 5 was also. Group 6 was still marginally above the positive negative value line at week 17. Statistical analysis of the peak response at 6 weeks by means of the student t test indicated that there was no significant difference between Groups 5 and 6 but thatGroup 5 differed from Group 4 at the 0.05 levels of significance. From the results obtained in this experiment, it would seem that the optimum concentration of these antigens to use is that which was administered to Group 5 vaccinates. That is 9.6 x 1010 CFU ml of S. aureus 21.9 mg N ml , 2.24 x 109 CFU ml of Str. agalactiae 14 mg N ml and 0.1 mg N ml of toxoided staphylococcal a hemolysin preparation. It appears that relatively large increments in dosage are required in order to cause a discernible difference in antibody levels. It is possible that there is a range of antigenic mass withi ssimits of which there is no differential effect on the antibody level. This is supported by the 3 ranges, represented, respectively, by a Group 2, b Groups 3 and 4, and c Groups 5 and 6. It is conceivable, therefore, that further increases in antigen mass would result in further elevations in antibody levels. Although by week 17 essentially all groups are below the arbitrary positive negative line, it is notable that the vaccinated groups still showed a discernible antibody difference which is reflective of the dosage administered. It is interesting to note the bacterial numbers which have been used in previous work on mastitis vaccines. Brock et al believed it unlikely that mastitis vaccination would work on the basis of results obtained using an extremely low dose S. aureus bacteria Brock et al, Res.Vet.Sci., 19 152 158 1975 . More optimistic reports were made by workers using high dose vaccines.McDowell and Watson McDowell et al, Aust. Vet. Jove.50 533 536 1974 3 and Blobel and Berman Blobel et al, Amer.J.Vet.Res., 23 92 1962 used high dose S. aureus vaccines containing 1.5 x 109 and 2 x 109 cells per ml, respectively, in conjunction with intensive inoculation regimes. Their affirmative results are not necessarily evidence of the efficacy of high dosage vaccines since many other differentials were involved in these experiments. However, it seems rational to conclude that the use of the correct antigens at a dosage level which is proven to elicit an immune response in the lactating gland is more likely to give positive results than a vaccine causing no detectable response in the target organ. EXAMPLE III This Example relates to the effect of selected adjuvants on the response of the mammary gland to a staphylococcal and streptococcal antigen. The results obtained in the dose response experiments described in Example III show that it is possible to stimulate a significant antibody response in milk. The duration of this response, however, is relatively transient. By 14 to 17 weeks after inoculation, the antibody level has essentially returned to pre inoculation values in cows which received optimal dosages of staphylococcal and streptococcal antigens.This period represents approximately half of an average lactation cycle. It was considered that the most potentially efficient means of maintaining antibody levels throughout a lactation was by the use of immunopotenti ating agents. Shean and Over caste examined the effects of several adjuvants on the immunogenic properties of a staphylococcal mastitis vaccine in cows. Assay of response was by quantitation of serum anti a hemolysin.The preparations considered were Freunds complete and incomplete adjuvant, alum and sodium alginate. Freunds complete adjuvant elicited a response which was significantly higher than vaccine alone. The other adjuvants showed no improvement over vaccine alone Shean et al, Efficacy of staphylococcal vaccines to elicit antistaphylococcal a hemolysin in dairy cows. Watson and Las cell es compared Freunds incomplete adjuvant to vaccine alone. Assay of antibody by means of bacterial agglutination showed that serum and whey titres were substantially higher in the cows which received adjuvant in addition to the vaccine Watson and Lascales, Res. Vet. Sci., 18 182 185 1975 . Several other immunopotentiators have been used in conjunction with mastitis vaccines on a noncomparative basis. These include Freunds complete adjuvant brock et al, Res. Vet. Sci., 19 152 158 1975 and aluminum hydroxide gel Slanetz et al, Am.J.Vet.Res., 26 688 695 1965 An experiment was carried out in order to evaluate the effects of various adjuvants on the response of the lactating gland to a stimulus, as measured by the ELISA.The aim being to select the adjuvant which was most efficacious in elevating the level of the response and extending its duration. The preparations which were examined included Freunds incomplete adjuvant handbook of Experimental Immunology , Weir ed. , 3rd ed.Blackwell Scientific Publications, Oxford p.A3.l A3.15 Herbert et al, Internatl. Symp. on Adjuvants of Immunity,Utrecht Symp. Series Immunobiol. Standard, 6 213 220,Karger, Basel 1967 3, Bordetella pertussis B.pertussis Finger, 4th Int. Convoc. Immunol.r Buffalo NY 1974, p 132 166, Karger, Basel 19751, aluminum hydroxide gel Hepple, Inter. Symp. on Adjuv. of Immun., Utrecht Symp. Series Immunobiol. Standard, 6 173 180, Karger,Basel 1967 and a metabolizable lipid emulsion Reynolds et al, Amer. Soc. Microbiol., 79th Ann. Meet. 1979 . Freunds complete adjuvant was not considered because it does not constitute a practically feasible means of immunopotentiation in the bovine. Staphylococcal a hemolysin was produced using S.aureus strain Wood 46. This strain was selected because it is a consistently high producer of a hemolysin Slanetz, Am. J. Vet Res., 26 688 695 1965 Production of a hemolysin was by the method of Coulter as described in Preparation 1. Purification was carried out by extraction using 0.15M sodium acetate Coulter, J.Bacteriol., 92 1655 1662 1966 . Staphylococcal somatic antigen was prepared from anS. aureus isolate cultured from a member of the herd, which was representative of the predominant phage type identified. The method of preparation was that described in Preparation I. Streptococcal Group and type antigen was prepared from Str. agalactiae type III which was the type identified in the herd. The method of preparation was that described in Preparation VIII. The concentration of antigens in the vaccine was 1.82 x 1011 CFU ml of S. aureus 43.8 mg N ml , 4.48 x 109 CFU ml of Str. agalactiae 28 mg N ml , and 0.4 mgN ml of toxoid containing staphylococcal a hemolysin.Equal volumes of this preparation and sterile saline were mixed for administration to animals in Groups 2 and 6.These were cows receiving vaccine alone and vaccine withB. pertussis, respectively.Inclusion of adjuvant preparations in vaccine Mineral oil. A water in oil emulsion was prepared using equal volumes of vaccine and Freunds incomplete adjuvant DifcoLaboratories, Detroit, MI by means of a syringe method Handbook of experimental immunology , Weir ed. , 3rd ed., Blackwell Scientific Publications, Oxford P.A3.1 A3.15 . Aluminum hydroxide gel. The vaccine was adsorbed with equal volumes of a 2 aluminum hydroxide gel Rehsorptar gel, Reheis Chemical Co., Chicago, IL . Metabolizable lipid emulsion. Peanut oil StandardBrands, Inc., New York, NY glycerol Mallinckrodt Inc.,Paris, KY and soybean lecithin Natural Sales Co.,Pittsburgh, PA were mixed in relative proportions of 10 10 1 respectively Reynolds et al, Amer. Soc.Microbiol., 79th Ann. Meet 1979 . The preparation was sterilized by autoclaving. An emulsion was made using equal volumes of the adjuvant preparation and vaccine. Bordella pertussis. B. pertussis was grown at 37Deg. C. for 5 days on Bordet gengou agar plates Difco Lab., Detroit, MI , enriched with 15 defibrinated rabbit blood. The organisms were harvested by washing of plates with sterile saline and inactivated by suspension in saline containing 1 10,000 Merithiolate Thimerosal EliLilly and Co., Indianapolis, Ind Verway et al, Jour.Bact. 58 127 134 1949 1. Following 3 washes in merthiolated saline the baceria were resuspended to a final concentration of 4 x 1010 cells ml in sterile saline. Fifty four lactating Holstein Friesan cows were randomly allocated to 5 groups in the same manner as described hereinabove. The groups of animals were vaccinated as follows Group 1, Saline Group 2,Vaccine Group 3, Vaccine and aluminum hydroxide gel Group 4, Vaccine and lipid emulsion Group 5, Vaccine and mineral oil and Group 6, Vaccine and B. pertussis.Samples taken fran cows 14 days or less, prior to drying off, were excluded from data analysis. Five ml of the relevant vaccine preparation was administered to each group of animals, on two occasions with a 21 day interval as described in Example III.Animals in Group 6 received 10 ml of the B. pertussis preparation, subcutaneously in the region of the semimembranosus and semitendinosus muscles, administered concurrent with the vaccine. The levels of IgG in milk specific for staphylococcal somatic antigen, a hemolysin and streptococcal Group B and type III antigen were assayed by means of ELISA. The ELISA procedure, using each of the respective antigens, was as described in Example I.All milk samples were subjected to duplicate analyses at a dilution of 1 6 in PBS T. S. aureus and Str. agalactiae were not isolated from any milk sample during the course of the experiment.Other bacteria which were isolated from the herd included Streptococcus species, Staphylococcus species and coliform species. These isolates were not considered in relation to data processing unless the infected animals showed evidence of clinical mastitis. Cows which developed clinical mastitis, irrespective of actiology, were excluded from data evaluation for the sample date prior to and following the clinical period. The specific IgG responses of each group of animals to each of the 3 antigens are shown in Tables 9 11. The results are expressed as mean absorbance values at 405 nm for that group. The standard error of the mean and the number of animals contributing to that sample s data are also included. The specific IgG responses to staphylococcal somatic antigen and a hemolysin are shown in Tables 9 and 10, respectively. The only adjuvant which exerted a significant effect in terms of level and duration of the response to the 2 antigens was mineral oil. Peak response in Group 5 cows to the staphylococcal somatic antigen showed a 6 fold increase over the antibody level of the saline control cows as opposed to a 2.7 fold increase shown by the animals which received vaccine alone. In the response to a hemolysin, this was a 14.8 fold and 3.2 fold increase, respectively. By 10 to 14 weeks post vaccination, the antibody levels of all groups of cows except those which received mineral oil adjuvant were approaching the levels of the control group. At this time, Group 5 still showed an antibody level which in the case of the a hemolysin was still comparable to the peak response of the other groups of cows which occurred at weeks 4 to 6. The levels of antisomatic antigen antibodies in the milk of Group 6 cows at this time was still 2.2 times the levels of the saline control groups. Specific antibodies in the milk of Group 5 cows to both of the staphylococcal antigens were still detectable at 22 weeks post vaccination. The specific IgG responses in milk to the streptococcal extract antigen are shown in Table 11.The height of the response did not appear to be affected in a statistically significant level by the inclusion of any of the adjuvant preparations. The duration of the response was extended somewhat by the inclusion of mineral oil in the vaccine.Group 5 still showed significantly different antibody levels at weeks 18 to 22 post vaccination, while the other groups of animals returned to approximate control levels by weeks 14 to 18 post vaccination. TABLE 9 Results of ELISA for quantitation of IgG in milk specific for staphylococcal somatic antigenaVaccine Sample Time Weeks Group 1b 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 17 1 x 0.261 0.238 0.224 0.194 0.192 0.192 0.240 0.207 0.232 S.E. 0.025 0.054 0.032 0.032 0.020 0.014 0.035 0.037 0.040 n 9 8 8 7 6 6 6 5 5 2 x 0.228 0.706 0.589 0.530 0.447 0.389 0.303 0.262 0.275 S. E. 0.037 0.054 0.080 0.084 0.074 0.095 0.064 0.046 0. 048 n 8 9 9 9 8 8 7 7 7 3 x 0.317 0.721 0.605 0.520 0.396 0.320 0.279 0.265 0.284 S.E. 0.053 0.082 0.055 0.066 0.061 0. 027 0.029 0.033 0. 049 n 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 8 7 4 x 0.217 0.662 0.680 0.477 0.400 0.355 0.283 0.310 0.367 S.E. 0.022 0.061 0.065 0.041 0.037 0.051 0.031 0.048 0.089 n 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 8 8 5 x 0.329 0.92 1.344 1.126 0.902 0.638 0.515 0.498 0.553 S.E. 0.043 0.075 0.138 0.107 0.073 0.059 0.043 0.067 0.087 n 8 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 6 x 0.272 0.638 0.508 0.390 0.331 0.255 0.304 0.235 0.224 S.E. 0.032 0.075 0.053 0.047 0.044 0.038 0.052 0.030 0.022 n 9 8 8 8 7 7 7 5 5 a Results are expressed as absorbance at 405 nm. Vaccine administered at time 0 and 3. TABLE 10 Results of ELISA for quantitation of IgG in milk specific for staphylococcal a hemolysinaVaccine Sample Time weeks Group 1b 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 17 1 x 0.198 0.185 0.164 0.179 0.091 0.126 0.100 0.096 0.111 S.E. 0.031 0.035 0.039 0.034 0. 015 0. 018 0.011 0.017 0. 017 n 9 9 8 7 6 6 6 5 5 2 x 0.162 0.515 0.527 0.469 0.257 0.252 0.144 0.138 0.165 S.E. 0.027 0.062 0.083 0.072 0.066 0.023 0.018 0.024 0.019 n 8 9 9 9 8 6 7 7 7 3 x 0.364 0.738 0.708 0.421 0.256 0.262 0.189 0.191 0.193 S.E. 0.079 0.105 0.079 0.059 0. 020 0. 023 0.018 0.017 0.044 n 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 8 7 4 x 0.231 0.557 0.919 0.479 0.267 0.251 0.158 0.211 0.199 S.E. 0.029 0.072 0.093 O. 038 0.033 0. 029 0.018 0.020 0.030 n 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 8 8 5 x 0.307 1.199 2.431 1.804 0.862 0.992 0.462 0.414 0.392 S.E. 0.054 0.204 0.099 0.161 0.096 0.092 0.036 0.047 0.064 n 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 6 x 0.179 0.386 0.453 0.352 0.192 0.195 0.150 0.129 0.163 S.E. 0.028 0.051 0.065 0.056 0.030 0.023 0. 025 0.021 0.018 n 9 8 8 8 7 7 7 5 5 a Results are expressed as absorbance at 405 nm. Vaccine administered at time 0 and 3. TABLE 11 Results of ELISA for quantitation of IgG in milk specific for streptococcal Group B, type III antigenaVaccine Sample Time Weeks Group 1b 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 17 1 x 0.748 0.619 0.498 0.512 0.521 0.469 0.476 0.325 0.465 S.E 0.088 0.062 0.060 0.061 0.056 0.043 0.083 0.047 0.061 n 9 9 8 7 6 6 6 5 5 2 x 0.533 1.096 2.244 1.731 1.381 1.139 0.720 0.591 0.708 S.E. 0.045 0.087 0.168 0.121 0.103 0.127 0.056 0.049 0.064 n 8 9 9 9 8 7 7 7 7 3 x 0.527 0.758 1.306 1.228 0.931 0.765 0.608 0.495 0.578 S.E. 0.079 0.063 0.060 0.088 0.075 0.056 0.072 0.032 0.053 n 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 8 7 4 x 0.453 0.678 0.827 1.524 1.195 0.966 0.507 0.576 0.567 S.E. 0.051 0.048 0.123 0.083 0.090 0.075 0.053 0.051 0.076 n 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 8 8 5 x 0. 429 0. 89l 2.159 2.111 1.624 1.486 1.093 0. 9Q4 0. 908 S. E. 0.033 0.077 0.148 0.161 0.134 0.105 0.088 0.076 0.124 n 8 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 6 x 0. 678 1.021 2.636 2.009 1.528 1.200 Q. 843 0. 614 0. 642 S.E. 0.052 0.086 0.043 0.151 0.122 0.096 0.119 0.101 0.051 n 9 8 8 8 7 7 7 5 5 a Results are expressed as absorbance at 405 nm. Vaccine administered at time 0 and 3. Under the conditions of vaccination described, the adjuvant of choice is mineral oil. The inclusion of this adjuvant with staphylococcal antigens has a highly significant effect on the height and duration of the immune response following stimulation. The effects of the mineral oil on the response to the streptococcal antigens is less clearly affirmative although there is evidence of an extension of the duration of the response. A final point is the fact that the cows in Group 6 which received B. pertussis as an adjuvant were relatively poor responders with respect to the 2 staphylococcal antigens. However, in the case of the response to the streptococcal antigen, the peak attained by this group was the maximum response for all the groups, exceeding even that shown by Group 5 mineral oil animals. The mechanism of action of B. pertussis is such that an extension of the duration of the response is not necessarily expected Finger, 4th Int. Concov.Immunol, Buffalo, NY 1974, p. 132 166. Karger, Basel 19751 . It is conceivable that B. pertussis, with further investigation of the variables involved, may prove to be the most efficacious immunopotentiator forStr. agalactiae bacterins. EXAMPLE IV This Example relates to the relative contribution of each immunoglobulin class and subclass to the immune response. Immunization during lactation must of necessity be a systemic stimulus. The advantages of systemic over local stimulation are evident at a practical level. However, the lack of success encountered following a systemic stimulus has led to statements such as antigenic stimulation at the local level is clearly the major if not the only factor influencing an immune response in the mammary glands of ruminants Watson, Aus. J. Biol.Sci., 33 403 522 1980 1. The response following local stimulation is almost entirely IgA and IgM. It is evident from an evaluation of the normal immune response of the mammary gland and the mechanisms involved in antibacterial defense that it may be essential to stimulate the production of all classes and subclasses of specific antibody. IgGl, the major secretory Ig in the bovine species, plays a major role in protection against extracellularly replicating bateria.This Ig is almost entirely humoral in origin and local stimulation is expected to have little effect on a specific response within this class. Previous examples analyzed the immune response of the lactating gland in terms of IgG levels. This Example is concerned with analysis of this response to determine the relative contribution, if any, of IgA and IgM and in addition to clarify the IgG subclasses which are involved in the response. Twenty six lactating Holstein Friesian cows were randomly allocated to 3 groups. There was no stratification of the animals on the basis of lactation stage, number or previous history of mastitis. Animals which were dried off during the experiment were discarded from data analysis 14 days prior to drying off. Animals were immunized with one of 3 preparations.Group 1 received saline, Group 2 vaccine suspended in saline and Group 3 vaccine emulsified in Freunds incomplete adjuvant. The concentration, volume of the vaccine, and method for administration was as described for Groups 1, 2 and 5, respectively, in Example V. These were carried out as described in Example I.Samples were taken 1 week prior to the first inoculation which was administered at time 0 and subsequently at week 4, week 8 and week 18. Antibodies in milk with specificity for staphylococcal a hemolysin were assayed by means of a modified indirect ELISA. The procedure was as described in Example I, with one modification which allowed for concurrent determination of the relative contribution of each Ig class to the response. Following incubation of the milk samples, rabbit anti bovine serum, monospecific for bovine IgA, IgM, IgGl and IgG2 was added, at an appropriate dilution predetermined by titration and incubated at 37 Deg. C. for 40 minutes. The 4 antisera used were rabbit anti bovine IgGl and IgGz MilesResearch Products Division, Box 2000, Elkhart, IN and rabbit anti bovine IgA and INM Pel Freeze Biologicals,Box 68, Rogers, AR .All milk samples, diluted 1 6 inPBS T were tested in duplicate, using each of the 4 mono specific antisera described above. Following washing, IgG goat anti rabbit IgG heavy and light chains conjugated to peroxidase Capel Laboratories,Cochranville, PA and diluted 1 500 in PBS T was added, and incubated for 40 minutes at 37or. The remainder of the test was carried out as descirbed in Example I. S. aureus and Str. agalactiae were not isolated from the lacteal secretions of any cows during the experimental period. Stephylococcus species other thanS. aureus and Streptococcus species other than Str.agalactiae were isolated intermittently. None of these isolates were associated with clinical disease during the experiment and, therefore, were not considered in relation to data processing. The results of ELISA tests are shown in Tables 12 14. The results of samples taken 1 week prior to inoculation showed that there were detectable levels of specific antibody of all classes present in the 3 groups of cows. The IgG levels in Group 3 were slightly elevated, the difference between these and Group 1 control cows being significant at the 0.02 level for IgG, and at the 0.01 level for IgG2 as computed by the student t test. IgA and I levels did not differ significantly between the groups. Four weeks after the first inoculation, specific antibodies of all classes were significantly elevated for the 2 groups of vaccinated cows in comparison with the saline control animals. The cows which were inoculated with vaccine emulsified in Freunds incomplete adjuvant showed responses which were 3.4, 2.6, 8.8 and 5.5 fold the basal levels of the control cows for IgA, IgM, IgG and IgG2, respectively. Eight weeks after the first inoculation, IgA levels in Group 2 cows had returned to approximate control values. The IgA levels in Group 3 cows remained elevated to almost 2 times control levels. IgG1 and IgG2 in group 3 cows were also still significantly raised although inGroup 2 cows IgG2 was no longer elevated. By 18 weeks, Group 2 vaccinates were indistinguishable from the control group for specific antibody in all classes. Cows which received the vaccine plus adjuvant still showed significantly raised levels ofIgA, IgGl and IgG2. These were 1.9, 3.9 and 2.4 fold the control levels, respectively. The levels of IgG in Group 3 had not yet returned to preinoculation levels since prior to vaccination they were 1.9 IgGl and 1.8 IgG2 fold the control group. TABLE 12 Relative contribution of each class and subclass of Ig in milk to a response specific for staphylococcal a hemolysina. Cows inoculated with saline. Class and Subclass of Antibody Sample Weeks b IgA Igm IgGl IgG2 1 x 0.432 0.283 0.182 0.140 S.E. 0.050 0.041 0.023 0.019 n 9 9 9 9 4 x 0.227 0.157 0.163 0.110 S.E. 0.019 0.025 0.021 0.017 n 8 8 8 8 8 x 0.258 0.190 0.189 0.152 S.E. 0.013 0.028 0.025 0.022 n 6 6 6 6 18 x 0.215 0.231 0.134 0.121 S.E. 0.030 0.077 0.018 0.030 n 5 5 5 5 a Results, obtained by means of ELISA, are expressed as absorbance values at 405 nm.b Vaccine administered at time 0 and 3. TABLE 13 Relative contribution of each class and subclass of Ig in milk to a response specific for staphylococcal a hemolysina. Cows inoculated with vaccine in saline. Class and Subclass of Antibody Sample Weeks b IgA Igm IgG1 Ir2 1 x 0.349 0.257 0.208 0.132 S.E. 0.052 0.041 0.034 0.010 n 8 8 8 8 4 x 0.365 0.218 0.536 0.268 S.E. 0.025 0.022 0.060 0.026 n 9 9 9 9 8 x 0.269 0.183 0.328 0.221 S.E. 0.025 0. 021 0.049 0.025 n 8 8 8 8 18 x 0. 262 0.154 0. 203 0.114 S. E. 0.014 0.020 0.023 0.012 n 7 7 7 7 a Results, obtained by means of ELISA, are expressed as absorbance values at 405 rum.b Vaccine administered at time 0 and 3. TABLE 14 Relative contribution of each class and subclass of Ig in milk to a response specific for staphylococcal a hemolysina. Cows inoculated with vaccine in mineral oil. Class and Subclass of Antibody S am pl e Weeks b IgA Igm I 9G1 IgG2 1 x 0.471 0.302 0.340 0.256 S. E. 0.042 . 0.036 0.053 0.029 n 9 9 9 9 4 x 0.774 0.408 1.440 0.603 S. E. 0.078 0.046 0.153 0.041 n 9 9 9 9 8 x 0.496 0.231 0.934 0. 521 S.E. 0.032 0.026 0.061 0.038 n 9 9 9 9 18 x 0.419 0.246 0.522 0.292 S.E. 0.047 0.030 0.069 0.024 n 9 9 9 9 a Results, obtained by means of ELISA, are expressed as absorbance values at 405 nm. b Vaccine administered at time 0 and 3. The parenteral administration of a vaccine which consists of optimal concentrations of antigen and the adjuvant of choice, results in the production of specific antibodies in all classes of Ig. It has been demonstrated that a systemically administered vaccine the constituents of which are optimal, can be efficient at both the local and humoral level in stimulating a response. This mode of immunization, therefore, warrants further investigation as a practicable means for vaccination since it obviates the problems associated with interference with the mammary gland itself. The various S. aureus and Str. agalactiae strains employed herein are available through Cornell University upon request and where indicated have been deposited with the American Type Culture Collection, as follows DepositedS. aureus NL6 ATCC No. 31885 23 July 1981S. aureus IR1 ATCC No.31886 23 July 1981S. aureus T33 ATCC No.31887 23 July 1981S. aureus 697 ATCC No.31888 23 July 1981S. aureus 5R ATCC No.31889 23 July 1981S. aureus P83 ATCC No.31890 23 July 1981S. aureus Smith ATCC No.39125 24 May 1982S. aureus 2 8 ATCC No.39126 24 May 1982S. aureus 305 ATCC No.29740 7 January 1979