# Abnormal condition detector for an electric apparatus.

## Abstract
An abnormal condition detector 5 detects an abnormal condition of an electric apparatus 1 by sampling an insulat ing fluid filled in the electric apparatus 1 under a pressurized condition and detecting a change of the condition of an indi cator which changes its colour if induced by an acidic gas in the sampled insulating fluid.

## Claims
WIlAT IS CLAIMED IS 1 An abnormal condition detector for an electric apparatus which comprises means for discharging a fluid filled in a closed container containing the electric apparatus and a detecting element in which an indicator which is reacted with an acidic gas to change its color is disposed to contact with the fluid discharged from said discharging means and said indicator being kept to be visible in said detectirg element. 2 An abnormal condition detector according to Claim 1 wherein said acidic gas is a decomposed gas produced by decomposing an insulating fluid. 3 An abnormal condition detector according to Claim 1 wherein said detecting element is a transparent tube in which said indicator is filled. 4 An abnormal condition detector according to Claim 3 wherein fibrous plugs for holding said indicator are inserted at both ends of said transparent tube. 5 An abnormal condition detector according to Claim 1 wherein said indicator is Bromocresol purple. 6 An abnormal condition detector according to Claim 1 wherein an indicator is adsorbed on an active aluminum for chromatography. 7 An abnormal condition indicator according to Claim I wherein a flow rate control valve is disposed in a passage for discharging said fluid. 8 Electric switching device with a switching mechanism in a chamber filled with an insulating gas, characterized by a detector 5 which is connected with the chamber 1 and which responds to acidic gaseous decomposition products of the insulating gas by a color change.

## Description
SPECIFICATION 1 ITS, OF THE INVENTION ABNORMAL CQNDITION DETECTOR FOR ELECTRIC APPARATUSBACKGROUND OF TBE INTENTION The present invention relates to an abnormal condition detector for an electric apparatus, More particularly, it relates to an abnormal condition detector of an electric apparatus especially suitable for an apparatus having a high voltage circuit kept in a closed container. In general, when a fault is caused in an electric apparatus, the decomposed gases are produced whereby a commercial gas detector can be used as a fault detector. However, such gas detector is mainly used for a low concentration level, and it responds to only one object component, and it is not clearly understood whether suitable detection can be performed when various decomposed gases are produced in the electric apparatus and when they are gradually produced. SUA1zERY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to provide an abnormal condition detector such as fault detector which easily , precisely and quickly detects an abnormal condition of an electric apparatus in which an insulat ing fluid is filled such as gas insulating switch. It is another object of the present invention to provide an abnormal condition detector of an electric apparatus which detects a fault of the electric apparatus by detecting an acidic gas from the viewpoint of the fact that most gases produced by a fault in the electric apparatus are acidic gases. It is the other object of the present invention to provide an abnormal condition detector which effectively detects a continuous abnormal condition as well as a sudden fault. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Figure 1 is a block diagram showing an application of an abnormal condition detector of the present invention Figure 2 shows a structure of one embodiment of the abnormal.condition detector of the present invention Figure 3 is a partially enlarged view of an detector element shown in Figure 2 and Figure 4 is a graph for illustrating a response of the detector element. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS Referring to the drawings, the present invention will be illustrated in detail. Figure 1 is a block diagram of an electric apparatus equipped with an abnormal condition detector of the present invention. In Figure 1, the reference numeral 1 designates an electric apparatus such as gas insulator switch which contains a high voltage conductor and is filled with SF6 gas 2 designates a tube passage for discharging the SF6 gas from the electric apparatus 1 3 designates a stop valve for holding the SF6 gas in the electric apparatus 1 4 designates a flow rate control valve 5 designates an abnormal condition detector of the present invention and 6 designates a flow rate meter for measuring a flow rate of the gas passing through the tube passage 2 . Figure 2 shows the structure of one embodiment of the abnormal condition detector of the present invention. In Figure 2, the reference numeral 52 designates a detecting element whose color or concentration is changed by inducing with an acidic gas 51 designates a box made of transparent acryl resin through which the change of the detector 52 is detected and 53 designates a connecting tube for connecting the tube passage 2 and the abnormal condition detector 5 .Figure 2 a shows a side view of the abnormal condition detector 5 andFigure 2 b shows a front view thereof from the arrow line direction X. Figure 3 is a partially enlarged view of the detail structure of the detector element 52 of Figure 2. In Figure 3, the reference nume ral 521 designates a glass tube 523 designates a chromatography active alumina basic adsorbing Bromocresol purple sealed in the glass tube 521 522 designates a cotton for supporting the active alumina 523 . The principle of the abnormal condition detector of the electric apparatus having the above mentioned structure which is applied for aSF6 gas apparatus will be illustrated. When an arc is generated at.a junction of a high voltage conductor, between the high voltage conductor and a surface of an insulating substance or between the high voltage conductors, SF6 gas is decomposed to generate low fluorinated sulfur compounds such as SF4. These low fluorinated sulfur compounds are chemically unstable to react with water in the SF6 gas or the substance of the apparatus whereby acidic gases such as HF, SOZ, SiF4, etc. are formed. When an arc is generated on or near the surface of the insulating substance, the carbon component of the insulating substance or the other material in the apparatus is decomposed with oxygen gas to form carbon dioxide gas coy together with the decomposition of SF6 gas. Among the resulting acidic gases, SF4, HF and SiF4 are chemically unstable whereby they are reacted with the components of the substrates of the apparatus to be consumed and further they are adsorbed into an adsorbent disposed in the apparatus for a moisture adsorption or decomposed gas absorption whereby the reduction of the concentration of these gases is relatively fast. On the other hand, SO2 and C02 are chemically stable and the effect of the adsorbent is relatively slow. From the viewpoints of the modes of the gas components, when the fault current is relatively large, enough amounts of SF4, HF and other gases remain for a long time, whereas when the fault current is small and is continuously passed, most of SF4, HF and SiF4 are adsorbed and only S02 and C02 remain. Accordingly, in order to detect such fault current, it is preferable to use a detector inducing to all of the acidic gases. Accordingly, as shown in Figures 1 to 3, the gases are dis charged from the electric apparatus 1 through the tube passage 2 as measured gases, and are passed through the detecting element 52 which contains the chromatography active alumina basic 523 adsorbing Bromocresol purple as a titration indicator. In order to detect the gases quantitatively,the flow rate of the gases is controlled by the flow rate control valve. When the particle size of the active alumina basic 523 is small and the passing gases are acidic, the color is changed from purple to yellow under enough reaction. Accordingly, the fault in the electric apparatus 1 can be detected by observing the condition of the color change of the detecting element 52 in the abnormal condition detector 5 through the box 51 made of the acryl resin. The quantitative detection may be attained by the observation of the flow rate of the gases and the length of the color change. The detector element 52 shown in Figure 3 can be prepared by the foU owing method. In the preparation, 3 ml of an indicator solution of Bromo cresol purple 0.5 g of Bromocresol purple 90 ml of ethanol 95 vol. balanced with water to be 100 me was mixed with 30 g of an active alu minum for chromatography and a small amount of water is added and the mixture is thoroughly mixed to a uniform colored condition and is tacky between particles. The active alumina is dried by passing a dry nitrogen gas at about room temperature. The dried active alumina basic particles 523 are filled in the glass tube 521 densely. Both ends of the glass tube 521 are clogged with cotton plugs 522 for buffering and holding the active alumina. It is preferable to cover the detector element 52 with plastic caps in the non use condition so as to shield it from air. On the response of the detector element, the responses to various concentrations of SF4 that is the length of the color change region under controlling a water content of 10 wit, , are shown inFigure 4. It is also possible to use the other indicators having a suitable pH color change interval such as Bromothymol Blue, Phenol Red,Neutral Red, Curcumine, Thymol Blue, Phenolphthalein, Cresolphthalein, Thymolphthalein, etc. together with the indicator mentioned above. Tn nrder to enlarge the lower limit of the detection, it is preferable to use particles having similar specific gravity and similar particle size. quantitativity quantitativity When higher is required, it is preferable to prepare the detector element by adding a predetermined amount of a base to the active alumina for chromatography. It is possible to eliminate needless components from the object for the measurement by selectively using a specific indicator. As described above, in accordance with the present invention, the abnormal condition such as a partial arcing which is continuously caused can be effectively detected as well as a detection of the fault, with a different method than electrical pr mechanical detection.Accordingly, the detection of the present invention can be combined with the electrical or mechanical detection. It is possible to detect NO2 caused by a partial arcing of an electric apparatus using air as an insulat ing medium as the measuring object which reacts to produce an acidic gas and the economic abnormal condition detector of an electric apparatus can be obtained.