# Composite ceramic cutting tool and process for making same.

## Abstract
Abrasion resistant composite cutting tools comprise a particulate material selected from the group consisting of the refractory metal carbides, nitrides, carbonitrides and com binations thereof uniformly distributed in a matrix. The particulate material is of an average particle size ranging between about 0.5 microns to about 20 microns and comprises from about 5 to about 60 volume percent of the composite cutting tool. The matrix consists essentially of a modified silicon aluminum oxynitride having about 2 to about 25 volume percent of a modifier selected from the oxides of silicon, yttrium, magnesium, hafnium, zirconium, beryllium, the lanthanides and combinations thereof and a process for making the same.

## Claims
Claims 1. An abrasion resistant composite cutting tool consisting essentially of a particulate material selected from the group consisting of the refractory metal carbides, nitrides, carbonitrides and mixtures thereof uniformly distributed in a matrix comprising a modified silicon aluminum oxynitride, said particulate material comprising from about 5 volume percent to about 60 volume percent of said cutting tool and having an average particle size of between about 0.5 microns and about 2C microns said modified silicon aluminum oxynitride having a modifier selected from the group consisting of the oxides of silicon, yttrium, magnesium, hafnium, zirconium, beryllium, the lanthanides and combinations thereof. 2. An abrasion resistant composite cutting tool in accordance with claim 1 wherein said modified silicon aluminum oxynitride is formed from about 2 to about 25 volume percent of said modifier, from about 20 to about 90 volume percent silicon nitride, and from about 5 to about 60 volume percent aluminum oxide. 3 An abrasion resistant composite cutting tool in accordance with claim 1 wherein the average particle size of said particulate material ranges between about 0.5 microns and 5 microns. 4. An abrasion resistant composite cutting tool in accordance with claim 1 wherein said particulate material comprises from about 20 to about 40 volume percent of said cutting tool. 5. An abrasion resistant composite cutting W95is accordance with claim 1 wherein said modifier comprises from about 2 to about 10 volume percent of said modified silicon aluminum oxynitride. 6. An abrasion resistant composite cutting tool in accordance with claim 1 wherein said particulate material is selected from the group consisting of the carbides of titanium, tungsten, hafnium, niobium,,tantalum, vanadium, and combinations thereof. 7. An abrasion resistant composite cutting tool in accordance with claim 1 wherein said particulate material is selected from the group consisting of titanium nitride and hafnium nitride. 8. An abrasion resistant composite cutting tool in accordance with claim 1 wherein said particulate material is selected from the group consisting of titanium carbonitride, hafnium carbonitride, and combinations thereof. 9. An abrasion resistant composite cutting tool in accordance with claim 1 wherein said particulate material is titanium carbide. 10. An abrasion resistant composite cutting tool in accordance with claim 1 wherein said modifier is yttrium oxide. 11. A process for obtaining an abrasion resistant cutting tool having a hard refractory material distributed in a homogeneous matrix containing a modified silicon aluminum oxynitride comprising mixing from about 20 to about 90 volume percent silicon nitride, from about 5 to about 60 volume percent aluminum oxide, and from about 20 to about 25 volume percent of Åa modifier to form a mixture reacting said mixture at a temperature from about 14000C to about 18000C for a period of time from about one to about eight hours in a non oxidizing atmosphere to form a reacted mixture comminuting a blend comprising from about 40 to about 95 volume percent of said reacted mixture and from about 5 to about 60 volume percent of a hard refractory material to form a composite blend and densifying said composite blend to form a homogeneous matrix of said reacted mixture having a dispersed phase of said hard refractory material throughout said homogeneous matrix, said densi fying being sufficient to obtain a density greater than 98 percent of theoretical density of said composite blend. 12. A process according to claim 11 wherein said modifier is an oxide selected from the group consisting of Si, Y, Hf, Ce, Zr, Mg, Be, the lanthanides, and combinations thereof. 13. A process according to claim 11 wherein said hard refractory material is selected from the group consisting of TiC, TiN, Ti C,N , HfC, HfN, Hf C,N , WC, W C,N , VC,VN, v c,N , TaC, TaN, Ta C,N , and combinations thereof. 14. A process according to claim 11 wherein said hard refractory material is a carbide selected from the group consisting of TiC, HfC, WC, VC, TaC, and combinations thereof. 15. A process according to claim 11 wherein said hard refractory material is a nitride selected from the group consisting of TiN, HfN, and combinations thereof. 16. A process according to claim 11 wherein said hard refractory material is a carbonitride selected from the group consisting of Ti C,N , Hf C,N , and combinations thereof. 17. A process according to claim 11 wherein said mixture is heated to a temperature from about 16000C to about 1800 C. 18. A process according to claim 11 wherein said non oxidizing atmosphere is a gas selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, helium, argon, and combinations thereof. 19. A process according to claim 11 wherein said densifying comprises pressing said composite blend to form a composite body and sintering said composite body at a sintering temper ature from about 1600 C to about 18000C in an inert gas atmosphere to form a homogeneous matrix of said reacted mixture having a dispersed phase of said hard refractory material throughout said homogeneous matrix, said densi fying being sufficient to obtain a density greater than 98 percent of theoretical density of said composite blend. 20. A process according to claim 19 wherein said sintering temperature is from about 170000 to about 1800 C. 21. A process according to claim 19 wherein said inert gas atmosphere is a gas selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, argon, and combinations thereof. 22. A process according to claim 11 wherein said densifying comprises hot pressing said composite blend at a pressure greater than 2000 psig 13,790 kN M2 and a temperature from about 16000C to about 190000 in an inert gas atmosphere to form a homogeneous matrix of said reacted mixture having a dis persed phase of said hard refractory material throughout said homogeneous matrix, said densi fying being sufficient to obtain a density greater than 98 percent of theoretical density of said composite blend. 23. A process according to claim 22 wherein said temperature of said hot pressing is from about 17000C to about 1900 C. 24. A process according to claim 22 wherein said inert gas atmosphere is a gas selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, argon, and combinations thereof. 25. A process according to claim 11 wherein said densifying comprises gas overpressure sintering at a gas overpressure from about 150 psig to about 200 psig about 1,030 to about 1,380 kNIM2 and a temperature from about 16000C to about 19500C in an inert gas atmosphere to form a homogeneous matrix of said reacted mixture having a dispersed phase of said hard refractory material throughout said homogeneous matrix, said densifying being sufficient to obtain a density greater than 98 percent of theoretical density of said composite blend. 26. A process according to claim 25 wherein said temperature of said gas overpressure sintering is from about 17000C to about 1950 C. 27. A process according to claim 25 wherein said inert gas atmosphere is a gas selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, argon, and combinations thereof. 28. A process according to claim 11 wherein said densifying comprises hot isostatic pressing at a pressure greater than 10,000 psig 68,947 kN M2 and a temperature from about 16000C to about 19000C in an inert gas atmosphere to form a homogeneous matrix of said reacted mixture having a dis persed phase of said hard refractory material throughout said homogeneous matrix, said densi fying being sufficient to obtain a density greater than 98 percent of theoretical density of said composite blend. 29. A process according to claim 28 wherein said temperature of said hot isostatic pressing is from about 17000C to about 1800 C. 30. A process according to claim 28 wherein said inert gas atmosphere is a gas selected from the group consisting of nitrogen, argon, and com binations thereof.

## Description
COMPOSITE CERM4IC CUTTING TOOL AND PROCESS FOR 4AKING SM This invention relates to composite ceramic cutting tools and cutting tool inserts. More particularly, it is concerned with a cutting tool fabricated of a modified silicon aluminum oxynitride containing one or more hard refractory materials and a process for, making same. U.S. Pat. No. 4,252,768 to Perkins, et al. discloses abrasion resistant nozzles fabricated by distributing hard refractory metal carbides in a binary solid solution of a ceramic oxide and silicon nitride, preferably a ternary solid solution of a ceramic oxide, silicon nitride and aluminum nitride. U.S.S.R. Pat. No. 537,986 to Gnesin discloses a ceramic material containing silicon nitride, metal carbide, and magnesium oxide or aluminum oxide, being exceptional in a way that, in order to increase the hardness and wear resistance, it contains as a form of metal carbide, titanium carbide. In general, wear resistance of a tool depends upon both its resistance to abrasion wear defined to a great extent by hardness and fracture toughness and its resistance to chemical or diffusional wear. The wear mode of the tool depends upon the nature of the workpiece in machining short chipping materials such as gray cast iron, for example, tool wear is controlled predominantly by abrasion wear resistance, while in the machining of long chipping materials such as steel, resistance to chemical wear becomes more important. A wide variety of silicon nitride based materials containing aluminum oxide and other additional oxides constitute a group of modified silicon aluminum oxynitrides. These material have relatively lo. hardness which limits their usefulness as cutting tool materIals. It is known to disperse hard refractory metals like molybdenum and tungsten in a solid solution matrix of aluminum oxide, silicon nitride and aluminum nitride by simultaneous mixing with a binder, sieving and the sintering as described in U.S. Patent No. 4,131,459 to Philips. U.S. Patent No. 4,252,768 to Perkins et al describes simultaneous mixing of a pre screened Si3N4, A1203, AIN, TiC and a binder, sieving and then sintering.U.S.S.R. Patent No. 537986 to Gnesin describes simultaneous milling and mixing of silicon nitride 75 b w, titanium carbide 17 b w and magnesium oxide aluminum oxide 11 b w. Then the dried mixture is hot pressed.Simultaneous milling and or mixing of the material followed by sintering, either by hot pressing or otherwise consolidating to obtain a dense article generally results in an inhomogeneous distribution of the matrix modifying phase causing a localized variation of the matrix properties which is not desirable. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved abrasion resistant composite cutting tool and process for making the same. It is another object of this invention to provide an improved abrasion resistant composite cutting tool with improved performance in cutting long chipping workpiece materials. It is another object of this invention to provide an improved process for making a homogeneous matrix having a hard refractory material uniformly dispersed throughout the homogeneous matrix. Further and other objects of the present invention will become apparent from the description contained herein. These and other objects, advantages, and capabilities are provided in accordance with one aspect of the present invention wherein there is provided an improved abrasion resistant composite cutting tool consisting essentially of a particulate material selected from the refractory metal carbides, nitrides, carbonitrides and mixtures thereof uniformly distributed in a matrix. The matrix comprises a modified silicon aluminum oxynitride. The particulate material comprises from about 5 to about 60 volume percent of the cutting tool and has an average particle size of between about 0.5 microns to about 20 microns. The modified silicon aluminum oxynitride has a modifier selected from the group consisting of the oxides of silicon, yttrium, magnesium, hafnium, zirconium, beryllium, the lanthanides, and combinations thereof. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a new and improved process for making an abrasion resistant cutting tool. The abrasion resistant cutting tool comprises a hard refractory material distributed in a homogeneous matrix containing a modified silicon aluminum oxynitride. The process comprises mixing from about 20 to about 90 volume percent silicon nitride, from about 5 to about 60 volume percent aluminum oxide, and from about 2 to about 25 volume percent of a modifier to form a mixture. The mixture is reacted by heating to a temperature from about 14000C to about 18000C for a period of time from about 1 hour to about 8 hours in a non oxidizing atmosphere to form a reacted mixture. A blend comprising from about 40 to about 95 volume percent of the reacted mixture and from about 5 to about 60 volume percent of the hard refractory material is then comminuted to form a composite blend. This composite blend is densified to form a homogeneous matrix of said reacted mixture which has a dispersed phase of the refractory material throughout the homogeneous matrix.The composite blend is densified sufficiently to obtain a density greater than 98 percent of theoretical density of the composite blend. Modified silicon aluminum oxynitride based composite cutting tools of improved performance can be obtained from the above described densified composite blend. For a better understanding of the present intention, together with other and further objects, advantages and capabilities thereof, reference is made to the following disclosure and appended claims. Figure 1 illustrates the range of compositions of cutting tools in accordance with the present invention in a four component diagram. Figures 2a Zc illustrate variation in tool hardness 2a , fracture toughness 2b , and modulus of rupture 2c with varying alumina content and refractory carbide content of articles in accordance with this invention. Figure 3 illustrates improved wear resistance of the cutting tools fabricated in accordance with this invention over that of aluminaWfree tools. Figure 4 is a graph illustrating abrasion resistance of cutting tools of the present invention compared with alumina free and silicon nitride free tools. Figure 5 illustrates a wear model of the abrasion and chemical wear components of tools in accordance with the present invention. For a better understanding of the present invention together with other and further objects, advantages and capabilities thereof, reference is made to the following disclosure and appended claims in connection with the above described figures. The polycrystalline bodies described herein have a composite microstructure of a modified silicon aluminum oxynitride, and a dispersed phase of refractory metal carbide, and or nitride, and or carbonitride and or solid solution thereof. The modified silicon aluminum oxynitride is formed from of about 2 to about 25 volume percent of a modifier, from about 20 to about 90 volume silicon nitride, and from about 5 to about 60 volume percent aluminum oxide. Many combinations of compounds can be used to obtain the modified silicon aluminum oxynitride described. For example, silicon nitride containing up to about 5 volume percent silicon dioxide and alumina may be employed. In that case, the alumina content is in the range from about 5 to about 60 volume percent, preferably from about 10 to about 30 volume percent. The sintering additive or modifier is selected from the group consisting of the oxides of silicon, yttrium, hafnium, zirconium, beryllium, the lanthanides, and combinations thereof. The preferred metal oxide modifier is yttrium oxide. Silicon dioxide is a glass forming modifier which can be present in the silicon nitride starting powder or it may be purposely introduced. Unintentional impurities present in the body tend to concentrate in an intergranular phase of the matrix and should be minimized.The modifier comprises from about 2 to about 25 volume percent of the matrix, preferably from about 5 to about 10 volume present. The matrix is defined as the modified silicon aluminum oxynitride. In accordance with this invention, the refractory material comprises from about 5 to about 60 volume percent of the densified composite cutting tool, preferably from about 20 to about 40 volume percent. Typical hard refractory materials are the metal carbides, and or nitrides, and or carbonitrides and or solid solutions thereof. Preferred hard refractory materials are the carbides, nitrides, carbonitrides and solid solutions thereof of metals selected from the group consisting ofTi, W, Hf, Nb, Ta, V, and combinations thereof.Particularly preferred hard refractory materials are TiC,TiN, HfC, HfN, Ti C,N and Hf C,N . The average particle size of the hard refractory material, determined by surface area measurement techniques i.e. s.ET ranges from about 0.5 microns to about 20 microns for cutting tool applications, preferably from about 0.5 microns to about 5 microns. As shown in Figure 2, the hardness of the cutting tools of this invention increases with increasing hard refractory material content. In order to optimize hardness together with fracture toughness, the preferred range of hard refractory material content is from about 20 to about 40 volume percent of the composite, with the most preferred range being about 30 volume percent Figure 4 shows volume percent titanium and 30 volume percent hafnium carbide in various matrix compositions. The resistance to chemical wear of these tools increases with increasing aluminum oxide content, as shown in Figure 5. The cutting tools of this invention are made by compacting the above mentioned components to a highly dense article by conventional techniques such as sintering, hot pressing, or hot isostatic pressing. Since the strength of the resulting cutting tools decreases with increasing porosity of the compact, it is important that the compact be densified to a density as closely approaching theoretical density as possible. The examples shown in Figure 2 have been consolidated to essentially full density. Improved wear resistance of cutting tools in accordance with this invention is illustrated inFigure 3. It has been found that mechanical mixing of the powdered components of the cutting tools of this invention results in smaller or larger inhomogeneities in the distribution of the modifying phase. These inhomogeneities may be of the order of 5 to 300 microns in size, resulting in undesired localized variation in properties of the matrix. Homogeneity of the cutting tool material is an extremely important factor for tool performance. During cutting, only a small portion of the cutting tool is exposed to high stress and elevated temperatures. The temperature induced changes in mechanical properties, which are also compositionally dependent, contribute to fracture and chipping at the tool edge, in turn contributing to the rate of tool wear. Modified silicon aluminum oxynitride based composite cutting tools of improved performance in accordance with this invention are obtained by pre reacting a mixture ofSi3N4, the metal oxide modifier, and from about 5 to 60 volume percent Awl 203 in a non oxidizing atmosphere such as nitrogen, helium, or argon, at a temperature ranging from about 14000C to about 1800 C, preferably from about 16000C to about 18000C for a period of from about 1 hour to about 8 hours. The pre reacted material is mixed with from about 5 to 50 volume percent of a hard refractory material selected from the carbides, nitrides, carbonitrides, and mixtures thereof of the refractory metals.The resulting mixture is comminuted by ball milling, high energy air milling, or attrition ball milling to form the initial composite blend. The composite blend is then densified to a density of at least 98 of theoretical by pressing followed by sintering, hot pressing, gas over pressure sintering, or hot isostatic pressing in a non oxidizing atmosphere. Temperatures employed for pressing followed by sintering range from about 16000C to about 1800 C, preferably from about 17000C to about 1800 C. Hot pressing is carried out at pressures greater than about 2000 psig 13,790 kN M2 at temperatures ranging from about 16000C to about 1900 C, preferably from about 17000C to about 1900 C. Gas over pressure sintering is carried out at pressures from about 150 to about 200 psig about 1030 to about 1380 kN M2 and at temperatures ranging from about 16000C to about 1950 C, preferably frorct about 17000C to about 1950 C. Hot isostatic pressing is carried out at pressures ranging above 10,000 psig 68,947 kN M2 and at temperatures ranging from 16000C to about lD00 C, preferably from about 1700 C to about 1800 C. The above defined process steps improve the performance of the cutting tool because the process insures improved homogeneity of the matrix phase and uniform distribution of the hard refractory material throughout the cutting tool. In order to fully utilize the advantages of the distributed hard refractory phase and to obtain a composite cutting tool with optimized chemical and mechanical wear resistance properties, it is preferred that the average particle size of the hard refractory material range between about 0.5 microns and about 20 microns in size, preferably between about 0.5 microns to about 5 microns. Properties of the particulate composite cutting tool of this invention are tailored for particular applications through structural modification of the composite by control of the particle size, distribution, and concentration of the hard refractory particulate. It has been observed, for example, that the presence of coarse particles having a size greater than about 20 microns greatly increases the probability of tool chipping and catastrophic tool failure during machining. Large particles of the hard refractory material were always noted at the point of fracture origin in photomicrographs of fracture surfaces. It was also noted that room temperature and elevated temperature strengths decrease with increasing particle size of the hard refractory, although there was an improvement in fracture toughness. Finer dispersion of the hard refractory material in the composite also improves chemical homogeneity of the cutting tool. In machining applications where chemical interaction takes place predominantly between the matrix and the workpiece material, improved chemical homogeneity of the composite decreases wear while insuring that any wear of the cutting tool is uniform To tailor the chemical composition of the composite tool of this invention for specific applications, the dispersed phase may be varied for certain machining conditions. Titanium carbide, hafnium carbide, titanium nitride, hafnium nitride, titanium carbonitride, and hafnium carbonitride are prefçrred hard refractory materials for inclusion in composite cutting tools of this invention.In those applications where it is important to minimize chemical wear, titanium nitride is preferred to titanium carbide. Additionally, titanium nitride exhibits better resistance to oxidation than titanium carbide in composite cutting tools of the invention. Combinations of titanium carbide and titanium nitride or titanium carbonitride itself have been found to be preferable under certain machining conditions to optimize mechanical and overall machining properties. The following examples are provided to enable one skilled in the art to practice the invention. These examples, however are to be viewed merely as illustrative of the present invention and should not be viewed as limiting the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Example 1 To 41.7 weight percent silicon nitride powder were added 32.85 weight percent alumina powder, 4.02 weight percent yttria powder, and 21.43 weight percent titanium carbide powder. About 2.5 parts by weight toluene, 0.1 parts by weight methanol, and 0.05 parts by weight stearic acid were added to the powder mixture. The resulting slurry was thoroughly mixed by ball milling and then dried at 75 C. The dry mixture was then ball milled for about 24 hours. The resulting mixture was mixed with about 0. a5 parts by weight of a copolymer of ethylene glycol and methoxyethylene glycol, 1 part by weight toluene, and about 0.05 parts by weight methanol. This mixture was mixed by ball milling for about 15 minutes after which the slurry was dried at 750C and screened through a 60 mesh screen.The 60 mesh fraction was pressed at about 25,000 psig 172,370 kNIM2 to obtain a green compact. The green compact was then sintered to a hard, densified product by heating to a temperature of 17500C in argon for 1.5 hours. Example 2 The method of Example 2 was employed to produce a composite cutting tool substrate body by employing 23.60 weight percent titanium nitride as the hard refractory material in place of the titanium carbide of Example 2. Example 3 The method of Example 2 was employed to produce a composite cutting tool substrate body by employing 55.07 weight percent hafnium carbide as the hard refractory material in place of the titanium carbide of Example 2. Example 4 To 41.7 weight percent silicon nitride and about 32.85 weight percent alumina powder were added about 4.02 weight percent yttrium oxide powder. The resulting mixture was thoroughly mixed by ball milling and then prereacted by heating at about 17250C for a period of about 5 hours in a nitrogen atmosphere to produce prereacted modified silicon aluminum oxynitride. To 0.70 parts by volume of the prereacted powder mixture were added about 0.30 parts by volume of titanium carbide powder. To the resulting powder mixture were added about 2.5 parts by weight toluene, about 0 1 parts by weight methanol, and about 0.05 parts by weight stearic acid.The resulting slurry was thoroughly mixed by ball milling and then dried at 75 C. The resulting dry mixture was ball milled for about 24 hours to uniformly distribute the titanium carbide throughout the prereacted modified silicon aluminum oxynitride. The resulting blend was mixed with about 0.05 parts by weight of a copolymer of ethylene glycol and methoxyethylene glycol, about 1 part by weight of toluene, and about 0,05 parts by weight of methanol. The resulting slurry was mixed by ball milling for about 30 minutes, dried at 75 C, and then screened through a 60 mesh screen.The 60 mesh fraction was pressed at about 25,000 psig 172,370 kN M2 to obtain a green compact which was thereafter sintered to a hard, highly densified body by heating at 175000 in argon. Example 5 A hard, highly densified cutting tool substrate body was produced by the general method outlined in Example 4 however densification of the 60 mesh powder mixture was effected by pressing the powder at a pressure of about 3000 psig 20,680 kN M2 at a temperature of about 170000 in argon. Example 6 The method of Example 4 was employed to produce a composite cutting tool substrate body by employing titanium nitride in place of the titanium carbide ofExample 4 and by carrying out the sintering step in nitrogen at a temperature of about 175000. A modified silicon aluminum oxynitride based cutting tool is fabricated from a mechanical mixture of Si3N4,A1203, a modifying phase consisting of one or more of the oxides of Si, Y, Mg, Be, Hf, Ce, Zr, the lanthanides, mixtures, and solid solutions thereof, and a dispersed hard refractory material consisting of one or more of the oxides of Si, Y, Mg, Be, Hf, Ce, Zr, the lanthanides, mixtures, and solid solutions thereof, and a dispersed hard refractory material consisting of one or more of the carbides and or nitrides and or carbonitrides of Ti, Hf,W, Nb, Ta, V, mixtures, and solid solutions thereof. The mechanical mixture is then sintered, hot pressed or otherwise consolidated by hot isostatic pressing to obtain a dense article. The average particle size of the hard refractory material ranges between about 0.5 microns and about 20 microns for the cutting tool application The average particle size of the hard refractory material falls preferably in the range between about 0.5 microns and about 5 microns. The hard refractory material comprises from about 5 to about 60 volume percent of the densified article. Hard refractory materials of dispersed phase are represented by carbides and or nitrides and or carbonitrides of Ti, Hf, W, Nb, Ta, V, combinations, and solid solutions thereof. The hardness of the cutting tools made from the densified articles increases with the increased content of the hard refractory material. However, in order to obtain the highest hardness together with the highest fracture toughness, the preferred range of bard refractory material additions is from about 20 to about 40 volume percent, an optimum composition being indicated at about 30 volume percent. The resistance to chemical wear of this type of tool in applications such as steel machining increases with Awl 203 content. The Awl 203 additions should be in the range from about 5 to about 60 volume percent and more preferably from about 10 to about 30 volume percent. In order to fully utilize the advantages of the distributed hard refractory phase and to obtain a composite cutting tool with optimized chemical and mechanical wear resistance properties, it is preferred that the average particle size of the hard refractory material range between about 0.5 microns to about 20 microns in size, preferably between about 0.5 microns to about 5 microns. Properties of the particulate composite cutting tool of this invention are tailored for particular applications through structural modification of the composite by control of the particle size, distribution, and concentration of the hard refractory particulate. It has been observed, for example, that the presence of. coarse particles having a size greater than about 20 microns greatly increases the probability of tool chipping and catastrophic tool failure during machining. Large particles of the hard refractory material were always noted at the point of fracture origin in photomicrographs of fracture surfaces. It was also noted that room temperature and elevated temperature strengths decrease with increasing particle size of the hard refractory, although there was an improvement in fracture toughness. In order to optimize mechanical properties for intended cutting tool applications, it is preferred that the average particle size of the dispersed hard refractory carbide and or nitride and or carbonitride phase be below about 20 microns and more preferably between about 0.5 microns to 5 microns. Finer dispersion of the hard refractory material of the composite of the invention also improves chemical homogeneity of the cutting tool. In machining applications where chemical interaction takes place predominant 11 between the matrix and the workpiece material, improved chemical homogeneity of the composite decreases wear while inspiring that any wear of the cutting tool is uniform To tailor the chemical composition of the composite tool of this invention for specific applications i.e., machining conditions, the dispersed phase may be varied.Titanium nitride, titanium carbide, and titanium carbonitride are preferred hard refractory materials for inclusion in composite cutting tools of this invention.In those applications where it is important to minimize chemical wear, titanium nitride is preferred to titanium carbide. Additionally, titanium nitride exhibits better resistance to oxidation than titanium carbide in composite cutting tools of the invention. Combinations of titanium carbide and titanium nitride or titanium carbonitride itself have been found to be preferable under certain machining conditions to optimize mechanical and overall machining properties. It has been found that mechanical mixtures result in smaller and larger inhomogeneities in the distribution of the modifying phase of the order of 5 to 300 microns in size, resulting in localized variation of the properties of the matrix. The homogeneity of the cutting tool material is an extremely important factor for tool performance. During cutting only a small portion of the tool is exposed to high stress and elevated temperatures. The temperature induced changes in mechanical properties in the affected area, which are composition dependent, contribute to fracture and chip formation at the edge of the cutting tool. These factors alter and increase the rate of tool wear. The properties of the matrix phase and therefore overall properties of the composite are also affected by the presence of any 5i02 in the starting Si3N4 powder.The SiO2 content if present is usually of the order of about 0.1 to about 5 volume percent, but can sometimes be more than 5 volume percent. SiO2 is a glass former and a change in its quantity will affect the mechanical properties of the composite at elevated temperatures. Therefore, it is advantageous to control the SiO content. 2 Modified silicon aluminum oxynitride based composite cutting tools of improved performance can be obtained by pre reacting a mixture of the above mentioned matrix constituents Si3N4, with or without SiO2, from about 2 to about 25 volume percent of a modifying phase consisting of one or more of the oxides of Si, Y, Mg, Hf, Ce, Zr, Be, the lanthanides and combinations thereof, and from about 5 to about 60 volume percent Awl 203 in a non oxidizing atmosphere e.g., nitrogen, argon, helium, at temperatures ranging from about 14000C to about 1800 C, more preferably from about 16000C to about 18000C for a period of about 1 to about 8 hours. A blend of the prepared pre reacted mixture in an amount from about 95 to about 40 volume percent and from about 5 to about 60 volume percent of a hard refractory metal carbide, nitride or carbonitride is then comminuted i.e., ball milling, attrition milling, high energy air milling, with the pre reacted mixture forming a composite blend. The composite blend is densified to a density of greater than 98 percent of the theoretical density of the composite blend by pressing and sintering, hot pressing, gas overpressure sintering, or hot isostatic pressing in an inert gas atmosphere i.e., N2, Ar. The atmosphere is preferably argon when the hard refractory material is a refractory metal carbide.The pressing and sintering is done at about 16000C to about 1800 C, more preferably at about 17000C to about 1800 C. The hot pressing is done at a pressure greater than 2000 psig 13,790 kN M2 and a temperature from about 16000C to about 1900 C, more preferably from about 17000C to about 1900 C. The gas overpressure sintering is done at a gas overpressure from about 150 to 200 psig about 1,030 to about 1,380 kN M2 and a temperature from about 16000C to 1950 C, more preferably from about 17000C to 1950 C, and the hotisostatic pressing is done at a pressure greater than 10,000 psig 68,947 kN M2 and a temperature from about 16000C to 1900 C, more preferably from about 17000C to 1800 C. The above process steps improve the performance of the abrasion resistant article because of the improved homogeneity of the matrix phase and the uniformly distributed hard refractory material dispersed therein. The following examples are provided to enable one skilled in the art to practice the invention. These examples, however, are to be viewed merely as illustrative of the present invention and should not be viewed as limiting the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Example 7 To 41.7 w o of Si3N4, which can contain from 0 to about 5 v o SiO2, add about 32 85 w o A1203 powder and 4.02 w o Y2O3. The resulting mixture is thoroughly mixed by dry ball milling, then heat treated at 172500 for 5 hours in a nitrogen atmosphere to produce a pre reacted modified silicon aluminum oxynitride. To 0.70 parts by volume of the pre reacted modified silicon aluminum oxynitride add 0.30 parts by volume of TiC powder. To the powder mixture of TiC and pre reacted modified silicon aluminum oxynitride add about 2.5 parts by weight toluene, about 0.1 parts by weight methanol, and about Q.05 parts by weight stearic acId.The resulting slurry is thoroughly mixed by ball milling and then dried at 75 C. The resulting dry mixture is ball milled for about 24 hours to obtain a uniformly distributed TiC throughout the pre reacted modified silicon aluminum oxynitride. This ball milled mixture is blended with about 0. us parts by weight polyethylene glycol methoxypolyethylene glycol copolymer, 1 part by weight toluene and about 0.05 parts by weight methanol. This mixture is ball milled for about 30 minutes, dried at 750C and then screened through a 60 mesh screen. The minus 60 mesh fraction is pressed at about 25,000 psig 173,370 kN M2 to obtain a green compact.The residual solvents and binders in the green compact are removed by heating at 6000C in an inert atmosphere. The green compact is then sintered to a hard, highly densified product by heating to temperatures of 17000C to 18500C in argon, for 1 hours. Example 8 To 41.7 w o of Si3N4 add about 32,85 w o A1203 powder and 4.02 w o Y203. The resulting mixture is thoroughly mixed by dry ball millincj, then heat treated at 17250C for S hours in a nitrogen atmosphere to produce z pre reacted modified silicon aluminum oxynitride. To 0.70 parts by volume of the pre reacted modified silicon aluminum oxynitride add 0.30 parts by volume of TiC powder. To the powder mixture of TiC and pre reacted silicon aluminum oxynitride add about 2.5 parts by weight toluene, about 0.1 parts by weight methanol. The resulting slurry is thoroughly mixed by ball milling and then dried at 75 C. The dry mixture is ball milled for about 24 hours and then screened through a 60 mesh screen. The minus 60 mesh 2 fraction is pressed at about 3000 psig 20,680 kN M at a temperature of about 17000C in argon to produce a hard, highly densified product. While there has been shown and described what is at present considered the preferred embodiment of the invention, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.