# A solar collector with absorber comprising a plurality of spirally coiled tubes defining non coincident surfaces.

## Abstract
A solar collector includes an absorber comprising a bundle of parallel or series connected coiled tubes 10, 11, 13 , each tube being spray coiled so as to define a rotational surface, at least the surfaces relative to two tubes being non coincident, preferably the coils of two tubes being axially offset to each other. Preferably the tube coils are partially inserted between each other. The collector compris es a preferably double wall envelope 18 , with a vacuum gap and possibly containing a reflecting screen 17 . Preferred materials for the outer envelope are polycarbonate or methymetacrylate for the coiled tubes 10, 11, 13 a heat stabilized technopolymer with a colour absorbing the solar rays. The envelope 18 may comprise two coaxial bells 18 , 18 connected by interfitting flanges. A fluid, generally a liquid, may circulate within the tubes of the bundle, while an air circulation inlet 25, outlet 26 may be provided in the space between said tubes 10, 11, 13 and envelope 18 , so as to provide a hot air output.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A solar collector comprising an envelope 18 at least partly of transparent material, a chamber defined within the envelope, a tube absorber in said chamber for heat absorption of the sun rays, characterized in that said absorber comprises spirally coiled tubes 10, 11, 12, 13 , each spiral or coil defining a surface, the surfaces of at least two coils being non coincident, so that a reflected ray generated by an incident ray at a section of an absorber coil will most likely encounter another coil of the receiver before exiting from the collector. 2. A solar collector according to Claim 1, wherein the coils of at least two tubes 1P 11 12 13 are offset to each other. 3. A solar collector according to Claim 1, characterized in that the surfaces defined by the tube coils 10, 11, 12, 13 intersect one another. 4. A solar collector according to Claim 1, characterized in that said tube plate has the coil axes substantially vertical and the spiral coils inserted between each other. 5. A solar collector according to Claim 1, further comprising an inlet connection 23 to said interconnected tubes and a tube outlet connection 24 for providing a circulation of fluid to be heated in said tubes. 6. A solar collector according to Claim 1, comprising an inlet connection 25 to said chamber and an outlet connection 26 from said chamber for providing a circulation of air to be heated about said tubes. 7. A solar collector according to Claim 1, characterized in that said envelope 18 has a double wall with a gap, said gap being under vacuum. 8. A solar collector according to Claim 1, characterized in that said envelope 18 is in the shape of a rotational solid. 9. A solar collector according to Claim 1, characterized in that said envelope 18 comprises two interconnected flanged bell semi envelopes 18 , 18 . 10. A solar collector according to Claim 1, characterized in that said envelope 18 comprises a reflective screen 19 for reflecting the sun rays on the tube absorber. 11. A solar collector according to Claim 1, characterized in that said envelope 18 is made from a transparent polyester acrylic polymer or transparent glass. 12. A solar collector according to Claim 1, characterized in that the tubes 10, 11, 12, 13 are made from a heat stabilized technopolymer having a sun ray absorbing colour, for example black, such as polyolefin polymers added with heat stabilizers andU.V. absorber in addition to carbon black. 13. A solar collector according to Claim 11, characterized in that the outer surface of the tubes is opaque and rough similar to an orange skin. 14. A solar collector according to Claim 11, characterized in that the polymer charge is added with metal powder or other heat conductor components.

## Description
A SOLAR COLLECTOR WITH ABSORBER COMPRISING A PLURALITY OFSPIRALLY COILED TUBES DEFINING NON COINCIDENT SURFACES Solar collectors are Imown and universally used and include an absorber or receiver comprising, for example, a fret curved continuous tube, which is arranged according to a planar surface and has a fluid flowing therein and is contained within an envelope or shell forming a flat panel. Such absorbers unavoidably have wide overall sizes and accordingly the location thereof is highly binding roof, ground, etc . Moreover, such collectors suitably take advantage of solar radiation only when the latter is orthogonally incident on the panel plane or surface thus, either the panel is fixed and a good exploitation of solar radiation is provided only for a few hours a day or the use must be resorted to for expensive tracking systems to maintain as long as possible the panel perpendicular to radiation. Another disadvantage of the prior art collectors having the absorber arranged on a single surface is that such collectors provide a poor exploitation of solar radiation as the incident radiation is absorbed for a percent of about just above one half of the incident energy, while a percent of about less than one half of the incident energy is reflected and thus not utilized.Therefore, it is an object of the present invention to provide a solar collector for using to a maxImum extent the energy of solar radiation.It is another object of the invention to provide a particularly compact solar collector.It is still another object of the invention to provide a solar collector which is of particularly easy construction and reduced cost.It is still another object of the invention to provide a collector capable of a dual utilization, both for supply hot water and hot air.In order to achieve the above mentioned objects, a collector according to the present invention has been devised. A collector of a type comprising an absorber for absorbing the heat of sun rays, an envelope at least partly of transparent material and containing the absorber, an inner chamber defined between said absorber and envelope, is characterized in that said absorber comprises spirally coiled tubes, each coil defining a surface, the surfaces of at least two coils being non coincident that is spaced apart from each other at least in some locations and the coils of at least two tubes being offset to each other, so that a reflected ray generated by an incident ray at a coil section of the absorber has a high opportunity of meeting at least another coil of the absorber before exiting from the collector.Within the collector tubes a circulation of fluid to be heated may be provided and or a circulation of air to be heated may be provided about the tubes. Generally, the envelope has a double wall with vacuum gap and preferably made as two connectable flanged bells. According to further features of the invention, the absorber tubes are made from a heat stabilized technopolymer having a colour absorbing the sun rays, for example black.Examples of such polymers are polyamide, polyester, polyolefin resins, fluorinated resins and such polymers may be added with heat stabilizers and U.V. absorber, as well as carbon black and metal powders. The envelope may be made from transparent acryl or polyester polymer or from transparent glass.The novel collector has a much higher efficiency than those hitherto known. Exposure to solar radiation is always good in the novel collector for any position of sun in the sky, i.e. for any azimuth and elevation that is the radiation always covers substantially the same extended area of the collector, as if the exposed absorbing surface were rotated around its axis. This is time both for the whole absorber and for the single tube. Additionally, a beam of radiations first hitting the surface of a tube in any collector is partly absorbed or converted to heat and partly reflected. In the novel collector a portion of the reflected radiations is operative on the surfaces of the other tubes, generally the inner tubes, being in turn partly absorbed and partly reflected, and so on. Thus a system has been provided which is similar to that referred to in physics as black box , that is a system wherein a ray entering the system is first caused to be incident on the system surface with high absorption and low reflection then the reflected ray is incident on a second surface of the system with like characteristics, and so on for a very high number of times, so that substantially only a negligible portion of the entering ray energy is allowed to exit from the system. Thus, a maximum exploitation of the energy in natural radiation is provided.While colliding on an absorbing surface, the solar short wave radiations are converted to heat radiations of large wave length.Thus, the absorbing surface is rapidly heated and can yield heat to a fluid circulating therein, and or to a fluid circulating thereabout. It has been found that this effect is enhanced also by the configuration of the absorbing surface. According to a feature of the invention, the absorber may comprise extruded tubes of technopolymers, made with an orange like skin by adding the polymer with short glass fibers, glass microballoons and other inert materials, such as micronized calcium carbonate and or quartz or metal powders, forming an opaque black surface with small craters, the nature of which will enhance the heat reception phenomenon. An opaque and rough surface may also be obtained suitably arranging the extrusion die.Further advantages of the invention comprise inalterability in time of the whole assembly substantial lightness and accordingly easiness in installation and cheapness in supporting structures possible installation in any insulated area vertical configuration of the element and accordingly substantial reduction in the amount of deposits normally found on planar collectors with rare servicing and cleaning a more safe installation in that the wind encounters an aerodynamic receding surface and the sail like effect is avoided, which is a problem with planar collectors absence of condensate on the external transparent surface, which condensate is a parasitism on the efficiency of the collector due to the poor conductivity of plastics absence of automatic adjustment systems for ensuring perpendicular incidence of rays on the tube coils ideal reliability cheapness ratio reduced mass of the assembly and particularly of the black body absorber allowing to obtain an increase in temperature within very short times only after a few minutes of exposure, differences in temperature in the circulating fluid are sensed , thus highly minutes of exposure, differences in temperature in the circulating fluid are sensed , thus highly reduced initial inertia and limited heat dispersion during and at the end of insolation.Other advantages are the possibility of using the assembly in structures for buildings such as pillars, beams for forming absorbing surfaces in alterability of black body unlike in the metal absorbers which undergo oxidation altering the black tonality thus reducing the absorbing power. The black colour for the collectors of the invention is obtained in their mass and not as a surface treatment.Schematically and unrestrictively the accompanying drawings show sane exemplary embodiments of solar collectors according to the present invention, and particularly Fig. 1 is a side view showing an embodiment at present preferred for the solar collector according to the invention, with part of the envelope being removed Fig. 2 is a sectional view taken along line 2 2 of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is an enlarged broken away schematic sectional view takenFig. 3a and 3b show schematically how the sun affects the collector an the tube Fig. 4 is a sectional view similar to Fig. 2, showing a solar collector, wherein the coiled tube absorber is protected by a reflecting semiparabolic envelope and front transparent planar plate Fig. 5 is a schematic view showing an exemplary collector with tubular bundles of conical instead of cylindrical shape, as shown in Figs. 1 and 2 Fig. 6 is a schematic horizontal sectional view showing a further exemplary collector with an absorber comprising a set of side by side coiled tubes, inserting in one another, with an envelope of substantially rectangular shape as seen in plan view Fig 7 is a side view with part of the envelope cutaway, showing a solar collector with an absorber comprising coiled plastic tubes contained within a double wall envelope, with possibility of two circuit operation water and or drying air andFig. 8 is a scheme showing the system using the collector shown in Figs. 6 and 7.As shown in Figs. 1 and 2, a solar collector 50 according to the invention includes in its at present preferred embodiment an absorber comprising a set or bundle of spirally coiled tubes, of which one tube 10 is coiled according to a cylindrical spiral of a larger diameter and the other three tubes 11, 12 and 13 are coiled according to cylindrical spirals of a less diameter the spiral axes are substantially parallel and vertical. In the preferred embodiments, the tube arrangement is such that the tubes are inserted between each other and each upper coil abuts on the lower coils to form a self supporting tube bundle or nest. The tubes are made of black heat absorbing material, as it will be further specified in the following. Within the parallel or series interconnected tubes, a fluid circulation is provided. The several tubes are supplied from bottom, through a connection 21 with threaded coupling 23, and the heated fluid or liquid is withdrawn from the top at 15 by a connection 22 with threaded coupling 24 for connection with other circuit elements. The liquid is then moved to use location or into an insulated accumulator tank, not shown.The collector of Figs. 1 and 2 comprises an envelope of transparent material to allow the passage of solar rays intended to heat the black coils 10, 11, 12 and 13 of plastic material.Heat concentration is preferably promoted by the provision of a reflective screen 17, protected at the back by an insulating layer 19. Preferably the transparent envelope is made with a double wall and is preferably made through coupling of two plastic interconnected flanged bells 18 , 18 . It should be noted that, although the tubes are described in the preferred embodiment as inserting between each other, as this has been found as optimal from statics and structure cheapness standpoint, it is however possible to provide collectors, wherein each tube is coiled according to a general surface and whatsoever arranged relative to the other tubes, but generally with non coincident surfaces and preferably with axes substantially parallel to one another of course, in this case it will be necessary to provide for supporting systems for the coils of the coiled tubes. In Fig. 3 there is shown the presumed action of the solar rays on the receiver of Fig. 1. Let us consider a beam of radiations F incident on a tube section. The beam is always substantially incident on a surface of same area of the tube for various positions of the sun relative to the collector. Some rays of the beam will incide substantially at right angles to the tube surface, while other rays will incide slantwise. The energy of the incident rays is partly absorbed for about 57 and converted to heat, and partly reflected about 43 . Considering an incident ray R slanting to the surface, it is partly absorbed and partly reflected, giving rise to a reflected ray R which in the novel collector is highly likely to incide on another tube section, for example 10. Here, a partial absorption and partial reflection will occur substantially with the same percentages as above set forth, and so on. In accordance with the high number of incidences due to the high tube density in the receiver arrangement, only a very small percentage of energy could be allowed to escape from the system.Of course, tube 10 is also struck directly by a beam of rays F .In Fig. 3a a cylindrical collector is shown which is struck by radiation of sun S on substantially equal areas, whichever can be the azimuthal position of the sun while Fig. 3b shows that each tube is struck by solar radiation on substantially equal areas, whichever can be the elevation of the sun.Of course, although it is preferred to use spirals of cylindrical winding, use could also be made of spirals wound according to a sphere or other general rotational surface.The apparatus or collector 60 of Fig. 4 includes an absorber comprising a set of spiral tubes 10, 11, 12 and 13 with vertical axis similar to those of Figs. 1 and 2. The envelope, much wider on the front, that is on the side affected by the sun, comprises a transparent flat surface 24, while the back is provided with a screen 25 reflecting to the front side, that is on the receiving coils 10 13. In order to avoid heat dispersion, the back is protected by an insulating layer 26.The solar collectors of this type may be series or parallel mounted to each other without any difficulty. The coiled tubes of collector 70 in Fig. 5 are spirally coiled according to a substantial conical shape 27 within a double wall envelope 18, generally of double bell 18 , 18 design.Fig. 6 is a schematic view of a collector 80 with coiled tube receiver 31 through 37, the coils of which are inserted between each other. In this case, the tube coils have coplanar axes. Such coils are contained within a double wall envelope 18, comprising bell semi envelopes 28 , 28 to form a planar solar panel. .Fig. 7 shows a collector 90 with absorber comprising a spiral or coil 10 of larger diameter and spirals or coils 11, 12 and 13 of a lower diameter to form a complete absorber of the type shown inFigs. 1 and 2. The envelope 38 with flanged bells 38 , 38 ccenprises a double wall, in the gap 39, 39 of which a vacuum may be created. The water or other liquid circuit passes through the tubes 10, 11, 12 and 13 parallel or series interconnected entering at the threaded coupling 23 and exiting from 24. The chamber or cavity 30, defined by the bell semi envelopes 38 , 38 and containing the coiled tubes 10, 11, 12 and 13 is communicated with outside by means of two openings that is an inlet opening 25 and an outlet opening 26 , thus building up a circuit for air heating. In many uses, for example in farming, in some periods of the day use is required of hot water, in other cases use of hot air for drying. This is provided by the system according to Fig.8, comprising three collectors 90 according to Figs. 6 and 7, the receiving circuits of which, as supplied with water, are serially interconnected. Thus, water inlet will occur in the direction of arrow E, while water outlet may occur both directly to use at location U calf and pig feed and at storage A as a reserve. This is controlled by a valve 20. Should hot air be required, for example for fodder drying, use can be made of the air circuit flowing through the series connected openings 25 and 26. Thus, air enters in the direction of arrow F and exits from pipe 29 for distribution under a grate 16 supporting the material to be dried.It should be noted that for production of hot air it is essential that the receiver tubes are internally supplied with fluid or internally contain fluid, although such tubes could also be empty.Preferably, an absorber according to the present invention is made of mass dyed technopolymers such as polyamide, polyester, polyolefin, fluorinated resins whereby the black tonality remains unaltered in time with the maximum values of absorption. The black technopolymer tube according to the invention is usually extruded with circular cross section, but the outer and or inner surface thereof could be modified to accelerate the heat exchange between the collector and circulating fluid. For example, tip projecting bunks could be made in the tube thickness for providing longitudinal grooves parallel to the tube axis, or spiroidal.These projecting bumps achieve the result of increasing the exchange surface between the inner wall and fluid, giving rise to a mechanical homogenizing of the small circulating fluid threads to the benefit of removing calories from the receiving element by the fluid.The prior art solar panels made of glass, rubber, metal and the like are poor in maintaining the oflgThA characteristics due to the deleterious effect of the different expansion coefficients at the presence of different temperatures. These drawbacks would create clefts and breakages with foreseeable negative effects for water seepages or losses, and formation of condensate which reflect the solar radiation.In the present solar collector element the expansion effects do not affect at all the system, since for its prevailingly resilient structure the mass of the receiving body can compensate for any mechanical stress. The geometrical structures of the collector may be varied by varying the diameter of the black coiled tubes, the winding diameter for the coils, the number of coils within the spiral, the coil pitch and the mutual arrangement of the coils.The size and appearance of the outer transparent envelope can be also modified.The bell envelopes are preferably made of polycarbonate or methyl metaerylate and generally with material transparent to sun rays, but impervious to infrared radiation.The fluid liquid circulation within the collector tubes is by natural effect without requiring any pumps but of course pumps could be provided for particular operational conditions.