# A process for preparing nicotinonitriles and intermediates used therein.

## Abstract
One aspect of the invention resides in the three step process for preparing cardiotonically active 1,2 dihydro 6 lower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyl nicotinonitriles or 1,2 dihydro 6 lower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyl nicotinamides which comprises reacting a pyridinylmethyl lower alkyl ketone with tri lower alkyl orthoformate, acetic anhydride and acetic acid to produce 2 lower alkoxy 1 pyridinyl ethenyl lower alkyl ketone reacting the latter with cyanoace tamide or malonamide in the presence of a basic condensing agent and neutralizing the reaction mixture, where pyridinyl is 4 or 3 pyridinyl or 4 or 3 pyridinyl having one or two lower alkyl substituents. Other aspects of the invention reside in the intermediate 2 lower alkoxy 1 pyridinyl ethenyl lower alkyl ketones, their salts and their two step conversion, as described above, to 1,2 dihydro 6 lower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyl nicotinonitriles or corres ponding nicotinamides.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A 2 lower alkoxy 1 pyridinyl ethenyl loweralkyl ketone of the Formula II herein or an acid addition salt thereof, where R and R are each loweralkyl and PY is 4 or 3 pyridinyl or 4 or 3 pyridinyl having one or two lower alkyl substituents. 2. A compound according to claim 1, wherein R is methyl or ethyl, R is ethyl or methyl, and PY is 4 pyridinyl or 3 pyridinyl. 3. 2 Ethoxy 1 8 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone according to claim 1. 4. 2 Ethoxy l 4 pyridinyl ethenyl ethyl ketone according to claim 1. 5. A process for the preparation of a compound ofFormula II according to claim 1, which comprises reacting a pyridinyl methyl lower alkyl ketone of the FormulaI herein with tri lower alkyl orthoformate, acetic anhydride and acetic acid. 6. A process according to claim 2, wherein said lower alkyl in said ketone and orthoformate is methyl or ethyl. 7. A process for the preparation of a compound of the Formula III herein wherein R and R are each lower alkyl, PY is 4 or 3 pyridinyl or 4 or 3 pyridinyl having one or two lower alkyl substituents and Q is cyano or carbamyl which canprises reacting a compound of the Formula II herein wherein R,PY and R are as defined above with 1 cyaooacetamide or malonamide in the presence of a basic condensing agent and neutralizing the reaction mixture or with 2 malononitrile in a lower alkanol to produce a compound of Formula III where Q is C1 cyano or carbamyl or 2 cyano, respectively. 8. A process according to claim 7, wherein said basic condensing agent is an alkali hydroxide in a lower alkanol, e.g. methanol. 9. A process according to claim 8, wherein at least a molar equivalent quantity of alkali hydroxide per mole of cyanoacetamide is present. 10. A process according to claim 7, wherein said lower alkanol in 2 is ethanol.

## Description
This invention relates to a process for preparing cardiotonically active 1,2 dihydro 6 Clower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinylinicotinonitriles and nicotinamides and to intermediates used therein. U.S. Patent 4,313,951 discloses inter alia, the process for preparing a l,2 dihydro 6 Clower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile by first reacting a pyridinylmethyl lower alkyl ketone with dimethylformamide di uower alkyl acetal to produce a l pyridinyl 2 Cdimethylamino ethenyl lower alkyl ketone, then reacting said ketone with cyanoacetamide and acidifying the reaction mixture. The same process is disclosed in U.S.Patent 4,276,293. U.S. Patent 4,223,149 discloses the process for preparing a 1, 2 dihydro 2 oxo 5 Cpyridinyl nicotino nitrile by reacting alpha pyridinyll beta di Clower alkyl amino acrolein with malononitrile in a loweralkanol. U.S. Patent 2,824,121 discloses an improved process for preparing oxy alkylidene compounds using a weakly acid compound as catalytic agent, e.g., zinc chloride, the process being particularly useful in preparing ethoxymethylene malonic diethyl ester by reaction of diethyl malonate and triethyl orthoformate in the presence of acetic anhydride and catalytic amounts of zinc chloride. Mezheritskii et al., Russian Chemical Reviews 42 t5 , 392, 399 402 and 410 C1973 , in a review article entitled The Properties of Orthoesters and TheirApplications in Organic Syntheses has a section Cpp. 399402 VIII. Reactions of Orthoesters with SubstancesContaining An Active Methylene Group . Shown inter alia is the reaction of diethyl malonate with triethyl orthoformate by heating the reactants in the presence of excess acetic anhydride to produce diethyl ethoxymethylenemalonate. U.S. Patent No. 4,347,363 discloses the process for preparing 1, 2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 Cpyridinyl nicotinonitriles by reacting a pyridinylmethyl methyl ketone with ethoxymethylenemalononitrile. The present invention resides in the process for preparing cardiotonically active 1,2 dihydro 6 lower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyl nicotinonitriles or 1, 2 dihydro 6 ower alkyl 2 oxo 5 Cpyridinyl nicotinamides by first reacting a pyridinylmethyl lower alkyl ketone with tri aower alkyl orthoformate, acetic anhydride and acetic acid to produce 2 lower alkoxy pyridinyl ethenyl lower alkyl ketone and reacting said ketone with Cl cyanoacetamide or malonamide in the presence of a basic condensing agent and neutralizing the reaction mixture or with 2 malononitrile in a lower alkanol. The substituted nicotinonitriles and nicotinamides produced as above and their cardiotonic use are disclosed in above U.S. Patent 4,313,951. The invention includes a three step process which comprises reacting pyridinylmethyl lower alkyl ketone of the formulaEMI2.1 1 with tri loweralkyl orthoformate, acetic anhydride and acetic acid to produce 2 lower alkoxy l pyridinyl ethenyl loweralkyl ketone of Fbrmula II,EMI2.2 and reacting said ketone II with I cyanoacetamide or malonamide in the presence of a basic condensing agent and neutralizing the reaction mixture or with 2 malononitrile in a lower alkanol to produce 1,2 dihydro6 R 2 oxo 5 PY nicotinonitrile or 1,2 dihydro 6 R 2 oxo5 PY nicotinamide of Formula III,EMI3.1 where R and R are each lower alkyl, PY is 4 or 3 pyridinyl or 4 or 3 pyridinyl having one or two loweralkyl substituents, and 0 is 1 cyano or carbon or 2 cyano spec tively. In preferred embodiments 4 or 3 pyridinylmethyl methyl ketone is first reacted with triethyl or trimethyl orthoformate, acetic anhydride and acetic acid to produce 2 ethoxy or methoxy 1 4 or 3 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl tor ethyl ketone, the latter ketone is next reacted with cyanoacetamide in the presence of at least a molar equivalent quantity of alkali hydroxide per mole of cyanoacetamide in a lower alkanol and then the reaction mixture is neutralized to produce 1,2 dihydro 6 metEyl or ethyl 2 oxo 5 4 or 3 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile. In a particularly preferred embodiment 4 pyridinylmethyl methyl ketone is first reacted with triethyl orthoformate, acetic anhydride and acetic acid to produce 2 ethoxy l C4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone, said latter ketone is then reacted with cyanoacetamide in the presence of at least a molar equivalent quantity of sodium hydroxide per mole of cyanoacetamide in methanol, and the reaction mixture is neutralized to produce 1,2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile. The invention also includes a 2 lower alkoxy l pyridinyl ethenyl lower alkyl ketone having Formula II above or an acid addition salt thereof, where R and R are each lower alkyl and PY is 4 or 3 pyridinyl. Said ketone II is useful as an intermediate in the process of the invention given above. Preferred embodiments of this aspect of the invention are the ketones where R is methyl or ethyl, R is ethyl or methyl, and PY is 4 pyridinyl or 3 pyridinyl. A particularly preferred embodiment is the ketone II where R is methyl, R is ethyl and PY is 4 pyridinyl. The term lower alkyl as used herein, e.g., as the meaning for R in Formula I, II or III or for R in Formula II or as the meaning for one or two substituents for 4 or 3 pyridinyl, means alkyl radicals having from one to four carbon atoms which can be arranged as straight or branched chains, illustrated by methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, 2 butyl or isobutyl. The term 11lower alkanol as used herein, means alkanol having one to four carbon atoms which can be arranged as straight or branched chains, illustrated by methanol, ethanol, n propanol, 2 propanol, n butanol, 2 butanol or 2 methyl n propanol. The term PY as used herein means 4 or 3pyridinyl or 4 or 3 pyridinyl having one or two loweralkyl substituents, illustrated by 2 methyl 4 pyridinyl, 3 methyl 4 pyridinyl, 2 methyl 3 pyridinyl, 2, 6 dimethyl 4 pyridinyl, 6 methyl 3 pyridiny 1 alternatively named 2 methyl 5 pyridinyl , 2,3 dimethyl 4 pyridinyl, 2 ethyl4 pyridinyl, 2 isopropyl 4 pyridinyl, 2 n butyl 4pyridinyl, 2,6 diethyl 4 pyridinyl, 2,6 diisopropyl 4pyridinyl, and the like. The compounds of the invention having FormulaII are useful both in the free base and in the form of acid addition salts, and both forms are within the purview of the invention. The acid addition salts are simply a more convenient form for use and in practice, use of the salt form inherently amounts to use of the base form. The acids which can be used to prepare the acid addition salts include preferably those which produce, when combined with the free base, pharmaceutically acceptable salts.In practicing the invention, it is convenient to use the free base form or the acetate salt thereof however, other appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable salts within the scope of the invention are those derived from mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid and sulfamic acid and organic acids such as citric acid, lactic acid, tartaric acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, cyclohexylsulfamic acid, quinic acid, and the like, giving the hydrochloride, sulfate, phosphate, sulfamate, citrate, lactate, tartrate, methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p toluenesulfonate, cyclohexylsulfamate and quinate, respectively. The acid addition salts of said compounds ofFormula II are prepared either by dissolving the free base in aqueous or aqueous alcohol solution or ather suitable solvents containing the appropriate acid and isolating the salt by evaporating the solution, or by reacting the free base and acid in an organic solvent, in which case the salt separates directly or can be obtained by concentration of the solution. Although pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds of Formula II are preferred, all acidaddition salts are within the scope of the invention.All acid addition salts are useful as sources of the free base form even if the particular salt per se is desired only as an intermediate product as for example when the salt is formed only for purposes of purification or identification, or when it is used as an intermediate in preparing a pharmaceutically acceptable salt by ion exchange procedures. The molecular structures of the products produced by the process of the invention were assigned on the basis of evidence provided by infrared, nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectra, by chromatographic mobilities, and by the correspondence of calculated and found values for the elementary analyses for representative examples. The manner of making and using the instant invention will now be generally described so as to enable a person skilled in the science of medicinal chemistry to make and use the same, as follows The process of the invention is carried out by mixing tri lower alkyl orthoformate, preferably triethyl or trimethyl orthoformate, with pyridinyl methyl loweralkyl ketone I and acetic anhydride in acetic acid as solvent.After an exothermic reaction subsides, the reaction mixture is stirred at ambient temperature until completion of the reaction, as determined by tlc analysis, to produce l lower alkoxy 2 pyridinyl ethenyl loweralkyl ketone CII . The reaction is run using an excess each of tri lower alkyl orthoformate, preferably about 1.3 to 1.7 mole per mole of ketone, and acetic anhydride, preferably about 2.0 to 3.0 mole per mole of ketone. The resulting intermediate ketone II can be used in the next step of the process without further purification or if desired it can be isolated and further purified.The reaction of II with cyanoacetamide or malonamide to produce 1, 2 dihydro 6 Clower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile III, Q is CN or 1,2 dihydro 6 lower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyl nicotinamide III, Q is CONH2 is carried out by heating the reactants in a suitable solvent in the presence of at least a molar equivalent of a basic condensing agent per mole of cyanoacetamide or malonamide and then neutralizing the reaction mixture.The reaction using cyanoacetamide is preferably run using as basic condensing agent an alkali hydroxide, preferably sodium hydroxide, either in solid form or in concentrated aqueous solution, in a lower alkanol, preferably methanol. Optionally and preferably when using malonamide, the reaction also can be run using a lower alkanol as solvent, preferably methanol or ethanol, and an alkali lower alkoxide, preferably sodium methoxide or sodium ethoxide, as the basic condensing agent. Other basic condensing agents that can be used include alkali carbonates, e.g., sodium or potassium carbonate, lower tertiary amines such as tri loweralkyl amines, e.g., trimethylamine, triethylamine, benzyldi lower alkyl amines, e.g., benzyldimethylamine, and the like, preferably in aqueous lower alkanol.Still other basic condensing agents include sodium hydride, lithium diethylamide, lithium diisopropylamide, and the like, which are used in an aprotic solvent, e.g., acetonitrile, benzene, ether, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, and the like. The neutralization step is carried out by adding a suitable acid, e.g., acetic acid, to the alkaline reaction mixture, preferably to a pH of about 6 to 8. Advantages of the instant process over theLesher and Philion prior art process for preparing 1,2 dihydro 6 lower alkyl 5 pyridinyl nicotinonitriles and corresponding substituted nicotinamides inhere in the utilization of less expensive and more readily available starting materials and in the easier production of a pharmaceutically pure product. For example, triethyl orthoformate is much less expensive than dimethylformamide dimethyl acetal and, further, it is much more readily available in the large quantities needed for large scale or commercial production.Also, an unexpected advantage in the use of l Clower alkoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl lower alkyl ketone II over the intermediate of the prior art, l dimethylamino 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl loweralkyl ketone, is the greater degree of regioselectivity in the addition of cyanoacetamide to l Clower alkoxy 2 C4 pyridinyl ethenyl lower alkyl ketone. Thus, reaction of cyanoacetamide with l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone in place of the prior art intermediate 1dimethylamino 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone to prepare l,2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nico tinonitrile results in formation of less of the isomeric by product, 1, 2 dihydro 4 methyl 2 oxo 5 C4 pyridinyl nicotinamide, thereby resulting in a simpler purification procedure required to produce a pharmaceutically pure compound. Still additional advantages are afforded by the particularly preferred process of preparing 1,2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile by the two step process starting with 4 pyridinylmethyl methyl ketone in the first step to produce l 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone and then reacting said ketone in the second step with cyanoacetamide and at least a molar equivalent quantity of sodium hydroxide either in solid form or in concentrated aqueous solution in methanol to produce said nicotinonitrile. Thus, the two step preparation can be conveniently run in one pot without isolating the intermediate l C4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. Moreover, the process is more economical in using the inexpensive sodium hydroxide as condensing agent.Also, it eliminates the need to recrystallize the said nicotinonitrile final product from dimethylformamide and, the final product, i.e., l,2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile, is obtained in an even purer form and in higher yield. The following examples will further illustrate the invention without, however, limiting it thereto.A. 1 LOWER ALKOXY 2 CPYRIDINYL ETHENYL LOWER ALKYL KETONES A I. l Ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl MethylKetone, alternatively named 4 ethoxy 3 4 pyridinyll 3 buten 2 one A 135 g portion 1 m. of 1 4 pyridinyl propan 2 one was added to 249 ml C1.5 m. of triethyl orthoformate and 259 ml 2.75 m. acetic anhydride in 250 ml acetic acid in a 3 neck 2 1. flask. A mild exotherm ensued which carried the temperature from 210C. to a peak of 560C. after 30 minutes.The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for about 12 to 15 hours or for sufficient time to effect complete reaction as determined by tlc on silica gel with a 3 1 mixture of chloroform methanol as the mobile phase. The volatiles were removed by distillation under reduced pressure water aspirator using a pot temperature of 800C.Ethanol 200 ml was added followed by further distillation in vacuo to a pot temperature of 950C. in order to remove the excess acetic anhydride. Methanol could be used in place of ethanol. The residue, 177.8 g deep red oil, consisting primarily of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyllethenyl methyl ketone, was used directly in the next step Example B l without further purification. A 2. l Ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl MethylKetone To a 104.5 g portion 0.77 m. of l 4 pyridinyl propan 2 one were successively added 141 ml 0.85 m. of triethylorthoformate, 175 ml 1.86 m. of acetic anhydride and 200 ml of acetic acid whereupon a exothermic reaction ensued raising the reaction temperature from 23at. to 49at. over a 30 minute period. The reaction mixture was then stirred at ambient temperature for about 16 hours and then heated in vacuo to remove the volatile materials.The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and the mixture treated with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution until foaming ceased. The organic layer was separated, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, treated with decolorizing charcoal and filtered. The filtrate was heated in vacuo to remove the solvent and the residue was swirled with about 300 ml of ether for about 5 minutes whereupon crystallization resulted. The mixture was stirred in an ice bath and the separated solid was collected, washed with cold ether and dried at 450C. to yield 78.5 g of orange solid. The solid was recrystallized from 200 ml of isopropyl acetate using decolorizing charcoal 5 g .The filtrate obtained after removal of the decolorizing charcoal was cooled whereupon the solid separated. The solid was collected, washed with cold ether and dried in a vacuum oven at 450C. overnight to yield 63 g of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone, m.p. 84 880C. Acid addition salts of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone are conveniently prepared by adding to a mixture of 1 g of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenylmethyl ketone in about 20 ml of methanol the appropriate acid, e.g., hydrochloric acid, methanesulfonic acid, concentrated sulfuric acid, concentrated phosphoric acid, to a pE of about 2 to 3, chilling the mixture after partial evaporation and collecting the precipitated salt, e.g., hydrochloride, methanesulfonate, sulfate, phosphate, respectively. Following the procedure described in ExampleA 2 but using in place of triethyl orthoformate a molar equivalent quantity of trimethyl orthoformate or trin propyl orthoformate, it is contemplated that the conpounds of Examples A 3 and A 4 can be prepared. A 3 1 Methoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. A 4. l n Propoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. Following the procedure described in ExampleA 2 but using in place of 1 C4 pyridinyl propan 2 one a molar equivalent quantity of the appropriate pyridinyl methyl lower alkyl ketone, it is contemplated that there can be obtained the corresponding l ethoxy 2 pyridinyl ethenyl lower alkyl ketones of Examples A 5 through A 10. A 5. 1 Ethoxy 2 3 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone, using l 3 pyridinyl propan 2 one. A 6. 1 Ethoxy 2 2 methyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone, using 1 2 methyl 4 pyridinyl propan 2 one. A 7. 1 Ethoxy 2 2 ethyl 4 pyridinyllethenyl methyl ketone, using l C2 ethyl 4 pyridinyl propan 2one. A 8. l Ethoxy 2 2, 6 dimethyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone, using 1 C2, 6 dimethyl 4 pyridinyl propan 2 one. A 9. 1 Ethoxy 2 C4 pyridinyl ethenyl ethyl ketone, using l 8 pyridinyl 1 C4 pyridinyl butan 2 one. A 10. l Ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl n propyl ketone, using l 4 pyridinyl pentan 2 one. A 11. 1 Ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl EthylKetone, 113 g of a dark red oil consisting primarily of said ketone, was prepared following the procedure described in Example A l but using 74.5 g of 1 4pyridinyl butan 2 one, 125 ml of triethyl orthoformate, 130 ml of acetic anhydride and 125 ml of glacial acetic acid. The product was used in the next step Example C 8 without further purification. B. 1,2 DIHYDRO 6 LOWER ALKYL 2 OX0 5 PYRIDINYLl NICOTINONITRILES B l. 1, 2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile A 69.5 g portion of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone Example A l was dissolved in 300 ml of ethanol and to the solution was added 13.2 g of malononitrile.The resulting mixture was refluxed for 5 hours, crystals starting to separate after about 30 minutes of reflexing. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and, the precipitate of fine needles was filtered, washed with ethanol and dried in a vacuum oven at 900C. to yield 25.4 g of 1,2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 C4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile, m.p. 3000C. Concentration of the mother liquor provided another 2.1 g of product, m.p. 3000C. B 2. 1,2 Dihyaro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyrid myll nicotinonitrile, 15.3 g, m.p. 3000C., also was prepared following the procedure described in Example B l using 64.5 g of l methoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketoneCExample A 2 , 13.2 g of malononitrile and 300 ml. of ethanol. An additional 6.2 g of the product was obtained from the mother liquor after concentrating it to dryness on a rotary evaporator and crystallizing the residual material from ethanol, m.p. 3000C. Following the procedure described in ExampleB l but using in place of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone molar equivalent quantity of the appropriate l alkoxy 2 pyridinyl ethenyl lower alkyl ketone, it is contemplated that there can be obtained the corresponding 1,2 dihydro 6 lower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyll nicotinonitriles of Examples B 3 through B 8. B 3. 1, 2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 3 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile, using l ethoxy 2 3 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. B 4. 1,2 Dlhydro 6 methyl 5 t2 methyl 4 pyridinyl 2 oxonlcotinonltrile, using l ethoxy 2 C2 methyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. B 5. 5 2 Ethyl 4 pyridinyl 1,2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using l ethoxy 2 C2 ethyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. B 6. 1, 2 Dihydro 6 methyl 5 2, 6 dimethyl 4 pyridinyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using 1 ethoxy 2 2,6dimethyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. B 7. 6 Ethyl 1, 2 dihydro 5 4 pyridinyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using 1 ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl ethyl ketone. B 8. 1,2 Dihydro 6 n propyl 5 4 pyridinyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl n propyl ketone.C. 1, 2 DIHYDRO 6 LOWER AtKYL 2 OXO 5 PYRIDINYL NICOTINONITRILES OR 1, 2 DIHYDRO 6 LOWER ALKYL 2 OXO 5 PYRIDINYL NICOTINAMIDES C 1. 12 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyS nicotinonitrile Sodium methylate 189 g 3.5 m.l was added to 2 1. of dry methanol temperature 6O0C1 .1O5 g 1.25 m. of cyanoacetamide was added to one portion followed immediately by a solution of 177.8 g about 1 m. of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone from Example A l in 500 ml methanol which was also added as quickly as feasible temperature 550C. . The reaction mixture was brought to reflux during which time the product began to separate, initially as an almost unstirrable gel however, upon reaching reflux, the product crystallized into an easily stirred but thick slurry.Ref fluxing was continued for 1 hour. The reaction was cooled to 550C. and treated carefully over 5 minutes with 150 ml 2.62 m. glacial acetic acid temperature 630C. . 2 1. Methanol was distilled off at atmospheric pressure leaving a thick paste. To the paste was added 2 1. cold water and the pH was adjusted to 6.5 7.0 with 10 ml acetic acid. The reaction mixture was cooled to 50C. The solid was collected on a funnel, washed with 2x500 ml. cold water, pressed dry and drying continued in a vacuum chamber at 650C. overnight to yield 147.5 g of a pinkish tan solid. A 42.2 g portion of this solid was added to 100 ml 8 aqueous NaOH at room temperature. The mixture was stirred until dissolved t5 mien. , treated with 4 g of decolorizing charcoal and stirred an additional 5 minutes. The resultant mixture was filtered through a finely divided filter aid, e.g., cellulose based filter aid SOLKA FLOW8, or diatomaceous earth. The filtercake was washed with 2x25 ml water and the filtrates combined.The filtrates were treated with 12 ml glacial acetic acid to pH 6.5 7.0. The thick slurry was heated at 900C. with stirring for 15 minutes to digest optional . Cooling to 100C,, filtration and water wash with 2x50 ml water affords a pale pink solid. The material was dried in vacuo at 650C. overnight to yield 41 g pale pink solid 97 recovery .A 37.5 g portion of this solid was dissolved by heating with 200 ml of dimethylformamide, the solution was allowed to cool with stirring to room temperature, cooled in ice and the product was filtered, washed with 2x100 ml ethyl acetate, dried in vacuo at 650C. overnight to yield as an off white solid, 34 g t91 recovery of 1, 2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile, m.p. 3000C. Following the procedure described in ExampleC 1 but using in place of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone a molar equivalent quantity of the appropriate l alkoxy 2 pyridinyl ethenyl lower alkyl ketone, it is contemplated that there can be obtained the corresponding 1, 2 dihydro 6 lower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyl nicotinonitriles of Examples C 2 through C 7. C 2. 1, 2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 3 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile, using l ethoxy 2 3 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 3. 1,2 Dihydro 6 methyl 5 2 methyl 4pyridinyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using l ethoxy 2 2 methyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 4. 5 2 Ethyl 4 pyridinyl 1,2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using l ethoxy 2 C2 ethyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 5. 1,2 Dihydro 6 methyl 5 2,6 dimethyl 4 pyridinyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using 1 ethoxy 2 2,6 dimethyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 6. 1,2 Dihydro 6 n propyl 5 4 pyridinyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using 1 ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl n propyl ketone. C 7. 1, 2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile, using l methoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone or 1 n propoxyl 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 8. 6 Ethyl 1,2 dihydro 5 4 pyridinyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, 92 g, m.p. 3000C., was prepared following the procedure described in Example C i but using 95 g 1.75 m. of sodium methoxide, 1 liter of dry methanol, 52.5 g C0.62S m. of cyanoacetamide, 113 g t0.5 m. of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl ethyl ketone, a reflux period of one hour, adding 75 ml of glacial acetic acid to the warm reaction mixture, distilling off 1 1. of methanol, adding 1 1. of water, adjusting the pH to 6.5 by adding acetic acid, cooling the mixture in an ice bath, collecting the precipitated product, washing it successively with a little ethanol and then ether, and drying it in a vacuum chamber at 650C. Following the procedure described in Example C i but using a molar equivalent quantity of malonamide in place of cyanoacetamide and using a molar equivalent of the appropriate l alkoxy 2 pyridinyl ethenyl loweralkyl ketone in place of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyllethenyl methyl ketone or using said ketone, it is contemplated that there can be obtained the corresponding 1,2 dihydro 6 Clower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyl nicotinamides ofExample C 9 through C 12. C 9. 1, 2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinamide, using l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 10. 1, 2 Dihydro 6 ethyl 2 oxo S C4 pyridinyl nicotinamide, using l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl ethyl ketone. C ll. 1,2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 3 pyridinyl nicotinamide, using l ethoxy 2 3 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 12. 1,2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 t2 methyl 4 pyridanyl nicotinamide, using l ethoxy 2 C2 methyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 13. 1, 2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile A 30 gallon glass lined kettle was charged while stirring with 11.2 kg of 186.4 moles of acetic acid, 12.3 kg 120.6 moles of acetic anhydride, and 7.32 kg 9.5 moles of triethyl orthoformate to obtain a clear, colorless solution at 190C. To the solution was added with stirring 5.24 kg 38.0 moles of l 4 pyridinyli 2 propanone and a mild exotherm was monitored. After 1 1 2 hour very gentle cooling was applied to maintain a maximum temperature of 500C. until the exotherm had subsided 1 3 4 her. . Stirring at ambient temperature for 17 hours gave a redorange solution 260C. final temperature , which was concentrated in vacuo using 60 70 C. water in the kettle jacket until the reaction volume was reduced to a volume of about 11 12 liters required 2 hrs. . The concentrate, which contained in solution l 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone in the form of its acetate salt, was cautiously diluted with 52 1. of methanol while cooling to 200C. 2 Cyanoacetamide 4.48 kg, 53.3 moles was then added, followed by 6.1 1. of 35 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution to reach pH 12. An additional 4.42 1. of 35 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 53.3 moles was added and the mixture was heated to reflux for 1 hour pot temp. 700C. . After cooling to 500C., the pli was adjusted to 6.0 6.3 by the addition of 4.6 1. of acetic acid. The mixture was cooled to OOC. for 15 minutes and filtered on a 288 diameter ceramic vacuum filter. The filter cake was washed with 7.6 1. of cold methanol and then 19 1. of deionized water.It was dried in vacuo at 60 C. affording, as a pink powder, 6.38 kg of 1, 2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile 79.4 yield . This product was 99.099.5 pure as estimated by tlc. A second crop of 323 g 4 of theoretical yield was obtained by concentrating the filtrate in vacuo to about one half the volume, diluting to the original volume with water, then reconcentrating in vacuo to 3 4th volume, and collecting the product. A 6.36 kg portion of the above 6.38 kg of pink powder was further purified as follows. A 30 gallon glass lined kettle was charged with 17.5 1. of deionized water and 2.81 1. of 35 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution.The 6.36 kg of product was added and the resulting solution was treated at ambient temperature for 15 minutes with 670 g of charcoal. The charcoal was removed by filtration through a finely divided filter aid, e.g., cellulose based filter aid SOLKA FLOC commat or diatomaceous earth on an 18 ceramic vacuum filter and the cake was washed with 7.65 1. of deionized water. The filtrate and wash were combined and slowly Cover 1 2 hour treated with acetic acid 2.16 1. required to pH 6.5. After stirring at ambient temperature for 45 minutes, the product was collected on a 28 ceramic filter and washed with 15 1. of deionized water. Drying in vacuo at 600C.overnight gave 6.22 kg of off white product, 1,2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile, m.p. 3000C., 6.22 6.36 97.8 recovery . C 14. 1, 2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile To a solution containing 2.6 g of sodium hydroxide pellets dissolved in 41 ml of methanol was added 2.5 g of cyanoacetamide with stirring. After dissolution was complete about 5 minutes , to the solution was added a solution containing 5.0 g of l 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone in 15 ml of methanol and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux for one hour, cooled to 50 C. and treated with 4.2 ml of acetic acid. The methanol was distilled off at atmospheric pressure and the residue treated with 55 ml of water. Since the pH was 6.0, there was no need to adjust it. The mixture was cooled to 50C. and the separated solid was collected, washed successively with 50 ml portions of cold water, ethanol and ether, and air dried to produce 4.7 g 85.5 yield of 1,2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile, m.p. 3000C. Following the procedure described in ExampleC 14 but using in place of l ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone a molar equivalent quantity of the appropriate l alkoxy 2 pyridinyl ethenyl loweralkyl ketone, it is contemplated that there can be obtained the corresponding 1, 2 dihydro 6 lower alkyl 2 oxo 5 pyridinyl nicotinonitriles of Examples C 15 through C 20. C 15. 1,2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 3 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile, using l ethoxy 2 3 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 16. 1,2 Dihydro 6 methyl 5 t2 methyl 4 pyridinyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using l ethoxy 2 2 methyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 17. 5 2 Ethyl 4 pyridinyl 1,2 dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using l ethoxy 2 2 ethyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C 18. 1,2 Dihydro 6 methyl 5 2,6 dimethyl 4 pyridinyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using 1 ethoxy 2 2,6 dimethyl 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone. C l9. 1,2 Dihydro 6 n propyl 5 4 pyridinyl 2 oxonicotinonitrile, using 1 ethoxy 2 4 pyridinyll ethenyl n propyl ketone. C 20. 1, 2 Dihydro 6 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 pyridinyl nicotinonitrile, using l methoxy 2 4 pyridinyl ethenyl methyl ketone or l n propoxy 2 4 pyridinyll ethenyl methyl ketone.