# Process for the production of an overbased sulphurised alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate.

## Abstract
Alkaline earth metal alkyl phenates are produced by reacting at elevated temperature, in the presence or absence of sulphur, an alkyl phenol with an alkaline earth metal base in the presence as solvent of either an alkylene or polyal kylene alkyl ether of formula R OR¹

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for the production of either an alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate or a sulphurised alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate which process comprises reacting at elevaced temperature, in the presence or absence of sulphur, an alkyl phenol with an alkaline earth metal base in the presence as solvent of either an alkylene glycol alkyl ether or a polyalkylene glycol alkyl ether of formula R OR1 OR2 wherein R is a C1 to C6 alkyl group, R1 is alkylene, R2 is hydrogen or C1 to C6 alkyl and x is an integer in the range 1 to 6 and as catalyst an inorganic halide. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the alkaline earth metal base is added in an amount greater than 20Z by weight in excess of the stoichiometric amount required to neutralise the alkyl phenol. 3. A process according to either claim 1 or claim 2 wherein in the formula R 0R1 xOR2, R is a C1 to C4 alkyl group, R1 is ethylene, propylene or butylene, R2 is hydrogen or C1 to C4 alkyl and x is an integer in the range 1 to 4. 4. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the solvent of formula R 0R1 xOR2 is the monomethyl or dimethyl ether of ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol or tetraethylene glycol. 5. A process according to claim 5 wherein the solvent is methyl digol. 6. A process according to any one of claims 3 to 5 wherein the solvent of formula R OR1 XOR2 is admixed with up to 60 by weight of ethylene or propylene glycol. 7. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the catalyst is a hydrogen halide, an ammonium halide, an alkaline earth metal halide, a zinc halide or an aluminium halide. 8. A process according to claim 7 wherein the catalyst is either hydrogen chloride, ammonium chloride, aluminium chloride, calcium chloride or zinc chloride. 9. A process according to any one of the previous claims wherein carbon dioxide is added either at one or more intermediate points during the reaction or to the final product or both during the reaction and to the final product. 10. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein an acid is added to the reaction mixture. 11. A process according to claim 10 wherein the acid is formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, stearic acid, glycolic acid, sulphonic acid or dodecyl sulphonic acid. 12. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein a supplemental diluent which is a lubricating oil is added. 13. A finished lubricating oil composition comprising an oil of lubricating viscosity and from 0.5 to 80 weight per cent of an alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate or a sulphurised alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate as obtained by the process claimed in claims 1 to 12.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF EITHER AN ALKALINE EARTH METALALKYL PHENATE OR A SULPHURISED ALKALINE EARTH METAL ALKYL PHENATE The present invention relates to a process for the production of either an alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate or a sulphurised alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate. In particular, the invention relates to the production of overbased alkyl phenates and to lubricating oil compositions containing them. In the internal combustion engine, by products from the combustion chamber often blow by the piston and admix with the lubricating oil. Many of these by products form acidic materials within the lubricating oil. This is particularly marked in diesel engines operating on low grade fuels of high sulphur content wherein corrosive acids are produced by combustion. The acids thereby incorporated in the lubricating oil can include sulphur acids produced by oxidation of sulphur, hydrohalic acids derived from halogen lead scavengers in the fuel and nitrogen acids produced by the oxidation of atmospheric nitrogen within the combustion chamber. Such acids cause deposition of sludge and corrosion of the bearings and engine parts leading to rapid wear and early breakdown of the engine. One class of compounds generally employed to neutralise the acidic materials and disperse sludge within the lubricating oil are the metal alkyl phenates and sulphurised metal alkyl phenates, wherein the metal is an alkaline earth metal such as calcium, magnesium or barium. Both normal and overbased alkaline earth metal alkyl phenates have been employed. The term overbased is used to describe those alkaline earth metal alkyl phenates in which the ratio of the number of equivalents of the alkaline earth metal moiety to the number of equivalents of the phenol moiety is greater than one, and is usually greater than 1.2 and may be as high as 4.5 or greater. In contrast, the equivalent ratio of alkaline earth metal moiety to phenol moiety in normal alkaline earth metal alkyl phenates is one.Thus, the overbased material contains greater than 20 in excess of the alkaline earth metal present in the corresponding normal material. For this reason overbased alkaline earth metal alkyl phenates have a greater capability for neutralising acidic matter than do the corresponding normal alkaline earth metal alkyl phenates. The present invention embraces the production of both the normal and the overbased materials. The prior art teaches many methods for preparing both normal and overbased metal alkyl phenates. One such method for preparing overbased alkyl phenates generally referred to as the single lime addition process comprises reacting an alkyl phenol, in the presence or absence of sulphur, a hydroxylic compound and excess alkaline earth metal hydroxide above the stoichiometric proportion required to neutralise the alkyl phenol , to form an intermediate product, followed by carbonation, a heading distillation to remove unreacted hydroxylic compound and filtration. The production of intermediate product is accompanied by a marked increase in viscosity while the subsequent carbonation reduces the viscosity to a relatively low level.The increase in viscosity accompanying the formation of the intermediate product is undesirable because the reaction mixture becomes difficult to agitate to the detriment of subsequent reactions. Whilst this increase in viscosity may be controlled to an acceptable level by incorporation of less alkaline earth metal hydroxide in the reaction, the overbased alkyl phenate product necessarily possesses a reduced neutralisation capacity. In order to achieve a high neutralisation capacity product and at the same time control the viscosity of the intermediate product within acceptable limits, the alkaline earth metal hydroxide may be added in two, generally referred to as the double lime addition process or three separate reaction steps, with sequential carbonation steps. However this method involves relatively long batch times.Another alternative is to use viscosity depressants, such as tridecanol, in the production of the intermediate product but such an expedient increases the raw material cost of the process. The hydroxylic solvent generally employed is ethylene glycol, which can be consumed in side reactions with sulphur producing increased amounts of undesirable hydrogen sulphide. Other solvents have been employed in the process. Thus the complete specification of GB 1,391,847 Continental Oil Company describes and claims a process for preparing highly basic magnesium, calcium or barium salts of alkylphenols or sulphurised alkylphenols wherein the process comprises a forming an admixture of i 3 to 80 parts by weight an alkylphenol represented by the formula Ar OH Rn wherein Ar represents an aromatic residue, R is a straight or branched chain saturated or unsaturated, aliphatic hydrocarbon radical having from 4 to 30 carbon atoms, and n is an integer, having a value of 1 or 2, with the proviso that the total number of carbon atoms in Rn is from 8 to 40, or sulphurised alkyl phenols made from the aforesaid alkylphenols, ii from 0.10 to 95 parts by weight of a non volatile diluent oil having a boiling point in excess of 2000C, iii from 0.5 to 250 parts by weight of a volatile process solvent having a boiling point below 1500C, and iv from 0.2 to 14 parts by weight of water b while the temperature is in the range of 20 to 550C adding to the admixture of step a an overbasing amount of a glycol ether solution of magnesium, calcium or barium, said glycol ether being represented by the formula ROCH2CH2OH wherein R is a C1 to C6 alkyl group or by the formula UOCH2CH2OCH2CH2OR where R is a C1 to C4 alkyl group, c while maintaining the admixture at a temperature higher than in step b and in the range of 55 to 1000C adding thereto a neutralising amount of a glycol solution of magnesium, calcium or barium, wherein i the cation is the same as in step b , and ii the glycol ether is as defined in step b and d removing the volatile materials by heating, said process being characterised further in that i the overbasing amount of glycol ether solution of magnesium, calcium or barium is from 0.1 to 5 equivalents per equivalent of alkyl phenol or sulphurised alkyl phenol, ii the total amount of magnesium, calcium or barium in the glycol ether solution added in the process is from 0.4 to 10 parts by weight in the case of magnesium, and is from 0.4 to 50 parts by weight in the case of calcium or barium, and iii the amount of water in step a iv is sufficient to provide 1.0 to 2.5 moles per mole of dispersed magnesium, calcium or barium. It is also known to use a solvent other than ethylene glycol in combination with a promoter. Thus US Patent No 34107898 TheLubrizol Corporation describes and claims a method for the preparation of an oil soluble, basic, sulphurised alkaline earth metal phenate which comprises reacting, at a temperature above 150 C, A a phenol, B sulphur, and C an alkaline earth base, in the presence of a promoter comprising D about 5 20 mole per cent, based on the amount of component A of a carboxylic acid or an alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, zinc or lead salt thereof and E as a solvent, a compound of the formula R ORl xOH, wherein R is hydrogen or alkyl, R1 is alkylene and x is an integer which is at least 2 if R is hydrogen and at least one if R is alkyl, said component E having a boiling point above 1500C the ratio of the number of equivalents of component B to component A being between about 1 1 and 2 1 and the ratio of the number of equivalents of component C to component A being at least about 2 1, and subsequently removing all volatile components from the reaction product. The objective of the processes described in the aforesaidUSP 3410798 and GB 1391847 is to increase the amount of alkaline earth metals in the alkyl phenate products so produced. We have now found that a high degree of overbasing can be achieved by using a combination of a polyalkylene glycol alkyl ether or an alkylene glycol alkyl ether as solvent and an inorganic halide as promoter or catalyst. This combination can lead to other useful advantages, for example the uptake of carbon dioxide in a subsequent carbonation reaction is surprisingly facilitated, which further results in an improved filtration rate. Accordingly, the present invention provides a process for the production of either an alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate or a sulphurised alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate which process comprises reacting at elevated temperature, in the presence or absence of sulphur, an alkyl phenol with an alkaline earth metal base in the presence as solvent of either an alkylene glycol alkyl ether or a polyalkylene glycol alkyl ether of formula R OR1 XOR2 wherein R is a C1 to C6 alkyl group, R1 is alkylene, R2 is hydrogen or C1 to C6 alkyl and x is an integer in the range 1 to 6, and as catalyst an inorganic halide. The alkyl phenols suitable for use in the process of the invention may be represented by the general formula Ar 0H CR4 n wherein Ar represents an aromatic residue, R4 is either a straight chain or a branched chain alkyl group containing at least four, preferably from 4 to 50, even more preferably from 8 to 25 carbon atoms and n is either 0 or an integer of 1 to 3. Typical alkyl phenols which may be used include, for example, phenol, butyl phenol, amyl phenol, octyl phenol, dioctyl phenol, nonyl phenol, dinonyl phenol, dodecyl phenol, cetyl phenol and higher alkyl phenols in which the alkyl groups R4 are derived from olefin polymers, such as, for example, polypropylene, polybutylene, or the like, and mixtures thereof. A particularly suitable alkyl phenol is the C12 alkyl phenol obtained by alkylating phenol with propylene tetramer. The alkaline earth metal base may suitably be an alkaline earth metal oxide or hydroxide. Of the alkaline earth metal oxide or hydroxide the hydroxide is preferred. Suitably the alkaline earth metal may be calcium, magnesium or barium. Calcium hydroxide may be added for example in the form of slaked lime. The alkaline earth metal base may either be added in an amount substantiallly equal to the stoichiometric amount required to neutralise the alkyl phenol, in which case the normal product will result or in excess, suitably greater than 20Z by weight in excess, of the stoichiometric amount, in which case the overbased product will result.Generally, the amount of alkaline earth metal base added may be sufficient to provide the maximum amount possible consistent with retaining acceptable solubility in base oil. The alkaline earth metal base may be added wholly to the initial reactants or partially to the initial reactants and the remainder in one or more portions at an intermediate stage or stages in the process. As solvent there is employed either an alkylene glycol alkyl ether or polyalkylene glycol alkyl ether of formula R OR1 XOR2 wherein R, R1, R2 and x have the aforesaid meanings. Preferably R is a C1 to C4 alkyl group, R1 is ethylene, propylene or butylene, R2 is hydrogen or C1 to C4 alkyl and x is an integer in the range 1 to 4. Suitable solvents include the monomethyl or dimethyl ethers of ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol or tetraethylene glycol. A particularly suitable solvent is methyl digol CH30CH2CH20CH2CH2QH . In admixture with the ether solvent there may suitably be employed a vicinal glycol, for example ethylene glycol or propylene glycol, in an amount up to 60 by weight of the solvent mixture.The total amount of solvent present may suitably be in the range from 0.1 to 2 moles, preferably from 0.5 to 1 mole, per mole of alkaline earth metal base. As catalyst there is used an inorganic halide which may suitably be either a hydrogen halide, an ammonium halide or a metal halide. Suitably the metal moiety of the metal halide may be zinc, aluminium or an alkaline earth metal, preferably calcium. Of the halides the chloride is preferred. Suitable catalysts include hydrogen chloride, calcium chloride, ammonium chloride, aluminium chloride and zinc chloride. Suitably the amount of catalyst employed may be up to 2.0X w w, for example from 0.4 to O.9Z w w, though higher concentrations may be employed if so desired. In one embodiment of the present invention an alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate is produced by omitting sulphur from the reactants. In another embodiment a sulphurised alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate is produced by addition of sulphur to the reactants. The amount of sulphur added may suitably be sufficient to provide from 1 to 10, preferably from 2.5 to 5 wt X in the sulphurised alkaline earth metal alkyl phenate product. Generally, this amount will be in the range from 4 to about 15Z by weight, based on the weight of the reaction mixture. Whether the desired product is an alkyl phenate or a sulphurised alkyl phenate, it is preferred to carbonate at some stage in the process. The addition of carbon dioxide may be effected either at one or more intermediate points during the reaction or to the final product or both. The carbon dioxide may be added as a gas, a solid or a liquid and is preferably added as a gas, suitably be blowing it through the reaction mixture. The amount of carbon dioxide added may suitably be in the range from 10 to 300 mole Z, preferably from 10 to 150 mole , of the alkyl phenol employed. During carbonation it may be desirable, particularly when using relatively low boiling solvents, to compensate for solvent losses by the addition of further solvent. It is preferred to add a supplementary diluent either prior to, during the course of, or at the completion of the process so as to facilitate the handling of the reaction product. Although in theory any inert water insoluble organic medium which does not react or interfere with the reaction may be used as the supplementary diluent, it is preferred to use a lubricating oil. Thus, by use of a lubricating oil, oil concentrates of the desired product can be obtained. Suitable lubricating oils include a wide variety of petroleum lubricating oils, such as naphthenic base, paraffin base and mixed base lubricating oils. Alternatively, synthetic lubricating oils, eg alkylene polymers, alkylene oxide polymers and carboxylic acid esters, may be employed. Suitably the lubricating oil may be a solvent neutral oil.The amount of supplementary diluent employed may suitably be within the range 10 to 60 , preferably 25 to 45t w w of the reaction mixture. Optionally a dispersant additive, such as a sulphonated dispersant, may be employed. It is preferred to add a small amount, suitably up to 2Z w w, of an acid. The acid may be either a mineral acid or an organic acid. Suitable acids include for example formic acid, stearic acid, sulphonic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid and dodecyl sulphonic acid. An important property of alkylphenates, particularly in marine lubricant applications, is their ability to minimise emulsion formation in water. In this respect it has been found that the addition of stearic acid or sulphonic acid to the reactants can enhance this property. The elevated temperature may suitably be in the range 130 to 200, preferably from 145 to 174µC, and the pressure may suitably be atmospheric, superatmospheric or subatmospheric, preferably at or about atmospheric. The process may be effected as a single lime addition or a double lime addition process. Suitably, the process of the invention may be carried out for example in the manner described in the complete specifications of British Patents Nos 900,059 1121437 and 1144084. A preferred method of effecting the process of the invention comprises, in a first step, reacting at elevated temperature an initial mixture comprising the alkyl phenol, optionally sulphur, and a stoichiometric excess of an alkaline earth metal base in the presence of the ether solvent and catalyst to form an intermediate product and thereafter reacting the intermediate product in a second step with carbon dioxide. The reaction temperature during the first step may suitably be in the range 130 to 200, preferably 145 to 1750C, and the pressure may be atmospheric, superatmospheric or subatmospheric, preferably about atmospheric. It is preferred to add the ether solvent when the temperature of the reaction mixture has attained a value within the aforesaid range. It is more preferred to add the solvent gradually over a period of from 0.5 to 3 hours whilst gradually raising the temperature. In the second step of the process carbon dioxide is reacted with the intermediate product. The carbon dioxide is preferably introduced as a gas, suitably by blowing it through the reaction mixture. The reaction of the intermediate product with carbon dioxide may suitably be carried out at a temperature in the range 135 to 2000C and at elevated, reduced or atmospheric pressure, preferably at a temperature in the range 145 to 1750C at, or about, atmospheric pressure. The process may be carried out batchwise or continuously.Preferably the process is carried out continuously with continuous recycle of recovered ether solvent. Typically the batch process may be carried out by, in a first step, charging an initial mixture comprising a mineral lubricating oil, an alkaline earth metal hydroxide, catalyst, carboxylic acid and an alkyl phenol to a stirred reactor having overhead distillation and condensing facilities and heating at, or about, atmospheric pressure to a temperature in the range 135 to 2000, preferably 145 to 175 C, adding the ether solvent over a period of from 0.5 to 3 hours, whilst gradually raising the temperature within the aforesaid range, there being removed overhead water formed in the reaction, to produce an intermediate product and in a second step reacting the intermediate product from the first step with carbon dioxide at a temperature in the range 135 to 2000, preferably 145 to 1750C at, or about atmospheric pressure. In a more preferred embodiment of the invention an initial mixture comprising a mineral lubricating oil, an alkyl phenol, alkaline earth metal hydroxide, catalyst, carboxylic acid and ether solvent is continuously fed to a first stirred reactor maintained at a temperature in the range 135 to 200, preferably 145 to 1750C and at, or about, atmospheric pressure, there being removed overhead water, to form an intermediate product which is passed continuously to a second stirred reactor maintained at a temperature in the range 135 to 200, preferably 145 to 1750C and at, or about, atmospheric pressure wherein the intermediate product is reacted with carbon dioxide to form a carbonated product and in a final step the ether solvent is separated and recycled to the first stirred reactor. Whichever procedure is employed, a product is obtained in admixture with ether solvent and possibly also lubricating oil diluent. It is therefore preferred to feed the admixture to a distillation column operating at reduced pressure and at a temperature such that ether solvent is removed as an overhead fraction and thereafter to filter the residual base product to remove insoluble matter therefrom. The distillation column may suitably be operated at a temperature of up to 2000C and a pressure of 50 m bar. The residual base product may be filtered for example, at a temperature of about 1200C and a pressure of about 90 psig. In a continuous process it is preferred to recycle the ether solvent removed by distillation to the first reactor. Alternatively, the process of the invention may be effected by reacting at elevated temperature an alkyl phenol and a stoichiometric excess of an alkaline earth metal hydroxide in the presence of the ether solvent and catalyst, the alkaline earth metal hydroxide being added in two or more separate additions, and carbon dioxide being introduced into the reaction mixture either before and or after each addition of alkaline earth metal hydroxide. According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a finished lubricating oil composition comprising an oil of lubricating viscosity and the product obtained as hereinbefore described. The concentration of the product in the finished lubricating oil composition will vary depending upon the degree of overbasing in the product, the particular properties desired and the type of lubricating oil selected. Generally, however, the concentration of the product may be in the range from 0.5 to 80 weight per cent. The oil of lubricating viscosity which may be employed in formulating the finished lubricant composition of the present invention may be selected from a wide variety of natural and synthetic oils such as naphthenic, paraffinic and mixed base lubricating oils. The oils may suitably have a viscosity of 35 to 5,000 SUS at 1000F or from 30 to 150 SUS Saybolt Universal Secon at a temperature of 210 F. Additionally the lubricating composition may contain other additives well known in the art, such as VI improvers, antioxidants, rust inhibitors, antiwear agents, pour point depressants etc. The invention will now be further illustrated by reference to the following Examples.Example 1 A slurry comprising a mixture of 200g methyl digol, 27.0g sulphur, 90.0g lime, 4.0g acetic acid and 3.0g calcium chloride was stirred and heated to 1450C 700 mmHg. 200g dodecyl phenol 80Z para isomer was added in 15 minutes during which the temperature was increased to 1650C 700 mmHg and held for 3 hours. 33g carbon dioxide was added at 1650C 1 bar. The temperature was increased to 200 C 10 mmHg during which 140 g lube oil was added and unreacted methyl digol recovered for recycle. Approximately 95Z of the methyl digol charged was recovered. Filtration was rapid and gave a product containing 9.6 w w Ca 3.5X w w S 5.3Z w w C02 with a base number of 271 mg KOH g. Comparison Test 1 A slurry comprising a mixture of 200g dodecyl phenol 80 para isomer , 43.1g overbased sulphurised calcium alkyl phenate, 33.6g sulphur, 90.0g lime and 158.4g lube oil was stirred and heated to 145 C 700 mmHg. 45.1g ethylene glycol was added in 15 minutes during which the temperature was raised to 1650C 700 mmHg and held for 3 hours. 40g carbon dioxide was then added at 1650C 1 bar and unreacted ethylene glycol removed at 2000C 10 mmHg. Approximately 50 of the ethylene glycol charged was recovered for recycle. The filtered product contained 9.31 w w Ca, 3.6 w w S and 4.422 w wC02. The product had a viscosity of 250 cSt at 1000C and anAlkalinity Value AV of 250 mg KOH g. Comparison Test 2 A slurry comprising a mixture of 200g dodecyl phenol 80 para isomer , 18.0g overbased sulphurised calcium alkyl phenate, 33.6g sulphur, 89.0g lime and 158.6g lube oil was stirred and heated to 1450C 700 mmHg. 116g methyl digol was added in 30 minutes during which the temperature was raised to 165 C 700 mmHg and held for 3 hours. 40g carbon dioxide was then added at 165 C 1 bar and unreacted methyl digol removed at 2000C 10 mmHg. Greater than 95t of the methyl digol charged was recovered for recycle.The filtered product contained 4.06Z w w Ca, 4.67 w w S and 1.72X w w COZ. The product had a viscosity of 31 CSt at 1000C and an AV of 118 mg KOH g.Comparison Test 3 The procedure of Comparison Test 2 was followed except that 4.0g glacial acetic acid was included in the initial slurry charge.The filtered product contained 8.3X w w Ca 4.8t w w S and 3.8X w w C02. The product had a viscosity of 567 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 247 mg KOR g. Comparison Test 4 The procedure of Comparison Test 3 was followed except that sulphur, overbased sulphurised calcium alkyl phenate and lube oil were omitted from the initial slurry charge. The methyl digol charge was also reduced to 58.6g. The filtered product contained 6.1 w w Ca, 0.02X w w S and 4.2 w w C02. The product had a viscosity of 69 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 161 mg KOH g. Comparison Tests 1 to 4 are not examples of the process of the invention and are included for comparison purposes only.Example 2 A slurry comprising 200g methyl digol, 27g sulphur, 90g lime, 8g glacial acetic acid and lg zinc chloride was heated to 165 C 700 mmEg and 200g dodecyl phenol 80X para isomer added during 10 minutes. The temperature was maintained for 3 hours, after which 50g COg was added at 1650C 1 bar. After the addition of 140g lube oil, the unwanted solvent was removed at 200 C 10 mmHg.The filtered product contained 10.4X w w Ca, 3.4 w w S and 6.4 w w C02. The product had a viscosity of 549 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 287 mg KOH g.Example 3 The procedure of Example 2 was followed except that the zinc chloride was replaced by calcium chloride lug . The filtered product contained 9.7Z w w Ca, 3.4 w w S and 7.6 w w COZ. The product had a viscosity of 167 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 272 mg KOH g. Example 4 The procedure of Example 2 was followed except that the zinc chloride was replaced by ammonium chloride 3g . The filtered product contained 10.0 w w Ca, 3.1 w w S and 4.6X w w C02. The product had a viscosity of 201 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 286 mg KOH g.Example 5 The procedure of Example 2 was followed except that the zinc chloride was replaced by aluminium chloride 3g . The filtered product contained 9.8 w w Ca, 3.6 w w S and 5.5Z w w 002. The product had a viscosity of 389 cSt at 1000C and had an AV of 274 mg KOllig. Example 6 The procedure of Example 3 was followed except that 200g dodecyl phenol was added to the slurry and 200g methyl digol added at 1650C 700 mmHg. The filtered product contained 10.1 w w Cas 3.6 w w S and 5.8 w w C02. Example 7 The procedure of Example 6 was followed except that the acetic acid was replaced by glycollic acid 4g . The filtered product contained 8.8X w w Ca, 3.4 w w S and 6.4 w w C02. The product had a viscosity of 152 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 253 mg KOH g. Example 8 The procedure of Example 6 was followed except that the acetic acid was replaced by formic acid 4g . The filtered product contained 10.3 w w Ca, 3.6Z w w S and 7.2 w w C02. The product had a viscosity of 296 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 293 mg KOH g. Example 9 The procedure of Example 6 was followed except that acetic acid was replaced by propionic acid 4g . The filtered product contained 9.8 w w Ca, 3.5 w w S and 5.2X w w C02. The product had a viscosity of 312 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 277 mg KOH g.Example 10 A slurry containing a mixture of 150g dodecyl phenol 80 para isomer , 27g sulphur, 90g lime, 4g ammonium chloride, 4g glacial acetic acid was heated to 1650C 700 mmHg. 200g of methyl digol was added during 20 minutes and the temperature held at 1650C 700 mm Hg for 3 hours. 35g C02 was then added at 165 C 1 bar, followed by 140g lube oil. Methyl digol was then removed at 2000C 10 mmEg. The filtered product contained 11.4 w w Ca, 3.8 w w S and 7.2 w w CO2. The product had a viscosity of 669 CSt at 1000C and an AV of 320 mg Kollig. Example 11 The procedure of Example 10 was repeated except that 120g dodecyl phenol, 15g sulphur and 95g lime were used. The filtered product contained 12.7 w w Ca, 2.7Z w w S and 8.8Z w w C02. The product had a viscosity of 438 cSt and an AV of 352 mg KOR g. Example 12 The procedure of Example 11 was repeated except that the sulphur charge was reduced to 10g. The filtered product contained 12.6 wlw Ca, 2.1Z wlw S and 8.9 w w coa. The product had a viscosity of 352 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 357 mg KOH g. As mentioned hereinbefore, a desirable property of lubricating oil solutions of alkyl phenates is an ability to minimise emulsion formation with water. This is of particular relevance in marine oil formulations and is conveniently measured by the procedure of ASTN D1401, which measures the amount of water separated from an emulsified mixture of 40 cm3 oil sample in 40 cm3 water. Example 13 A slurry containing a mixture of 200g dodecyl phenol 80X para isomer , 27g sulphur, 90g lime, 4g glacial acetic acid and 3g calcium chloride was stirred and heated to 1650C 700 mmHg. 200g methyl digol was added over 20 minutes and the reaction maintained at 1650C 700 mmHg for 3 hours. 35g C02 was added at 1650C 1 bar followed by 140g lube oil. Methyl digol was removed at 2000C 10 miHg. The filtered product contained 10.1 w w Ca, 3.6X w w S and 5.8X w w COZ. The product had a viscosity of 452 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 290 mg KOH g. The water separation byASTM D1401 was 8 cm3.Example 14 The procedure of Example 13 was repeated except that 10g of stearic acid was included in the slurry charge. The filtered product contained 10.3Z w w Ca, 3.6X w w S and 5.7X w w COZ. The product had a viscosity of 510 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 286 mg KOH g. The water separation by ASTM D1401 was 26 cm3.Example 15 The procedure of Example 13 was repeated except that a mixture of 130g lube oil and 10g sulphonic acid was added after the carbonation step. The filtered product contained 9.6 w w Ca, 3.5Z w w S and 6.1Z w w C02. The product had a viscosity of 335 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 262 mg KOH g. The water separation byASTM D1401 was 33 cm3.Example 16 The procedure of Example 13 was repeated except that the reaction period was reduced from 3 to 1 hour at 165 C 700 mmHg. The filtered product contained 9.9X w w Ca, 3.6 w w S and 5.9 w w C02. The product had a viscosity of 383 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 267 mg KOH g. The water separation by ASTM D1401 was 20 cm3. Example 17 The procedure of Example 13 was followed except that the reaction period was reduced from 3 hours to 5 minutes at 1650C 700 mmHg. The filtered product contained 9j9 w w Ca, 3.7 w w S and 5.6X w w 002. The product had a viscosity of 390 cSt at 1000C and an AV of 281 mg KOH g. Water separation by ASTM D1401 was 25 cm3. Example 18 The procedure of Example 13 was repeated except that the glacial acetic acid was omitted and replaced by 4g ethylene glycol.The filtered product contained 9.8X w w Ca, 3.6D w w S and 5.6 w w CO2. The product had a viscosity of 380 cSt at 1000C and had an AV of 277 mg ROH g. Water separation by ASTM D1401 was 25 cm3.