# Glucuronides and methods for their preparation.

## Abstract
In vitro enzymatic processes are disclosed which effi ciently convert compounds containing a primary alcohol to their corresponding novel O glucuronic acid derivatives. Exemplified as starting compounds are anticholinergics containing a primary alcohol. The novel glucuronides are useful as UV absorbents.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing the O 4 D glucuronic acid of a compound having a primary alcohol moiety characterised by converting said compound having a primary alcohol moiety to its corresponding 0glucuronic acid derivative by an in vitro enzymatic process. 2. A process according to claim 1, wherein the compound having a primary alcohol moiety is an anticholinergic compound. 3. A process according to claim 2, wherein the cholinergic compound is selected from tropicamide, scopolamine, atropine, and hyoscyamine. 4. A process according to claim 2, which comprises a incubating liver microsomes at a suitable temperature in the presence of a suitable buffer at a suitable pH, with i the anticholinergic compound, and ii uridine Stdiphosphoglucuronic acid, for a sufficient time to conjugate the aglycon with glucuronic acid, and b isolating the O 5 D glucuronic acid of the anticholinergic compound from the reaction mixture. 5. A process, according to claim 4, wherein said O D glucuronic acid is essentially pure ammonium , tropicamide O D glucuronic acid, and said anticholinergic compound is , tropicamide. 6. A process for separating ammonium tropicamide 0 fi D glucuronic acid and ammonium tropicamide O D glucuronic acid from ammonium S tropicamide O P D glucuronic acid characterised by subjecting ammonium , tropicamide O D glucuronic acid to reversed phase liquid chromatography. 7. A process, according to claim 2, wherein the anticholinergic compound contains an ester moiety and which comprises a substantially removing esterases from liver microsomes b incubating said treated liver microsomes in the presence of i a suitable buffer to maintain the pH at about 7 to about 8.5 ii the ester moiety containing anti cholinergic compound and iii uridine 5 diphosphoglucuronic acid, for a sufficient time to conjugate the aglycon with glucuronic acid, and c isolating the O D glucuronic acid of the ester moiety containing anti cholinergic compound. 8. A process, according to claim 2, wherein the anticholinergic compound contains an ester moiety and which comprises a substantially removing esterases from liver microsomes b incubating said treated liver microsomes in the presence of i a suitable buffer to maintain the pH at about 7 to about 8.5 ii the ester moiety containing anti cholinergic compound iii uridine 5 diphosphoglucuronic acid and iv a selective residual esterase inhibitor, and c isolating the O A D glucuronic acid of the ester moiety containing anti cholinergic compound. 9. A process, according to claim 1, for preparing the O D glucuronide of the compound having the primary alcohol moiety which comprises reacting a solution of D glucuronic acid with a solution of said compound, and a solution of glucuronidase, for a time sufficient to form the O D glucuronide, and isolating said glucuronide. 10. A product which is a the O D glucuronic acid of a compound having a primary alcohol moiety, when prepared by a process according to claim 1 or claim 2 or b a base addition salt thereof. 11. The product of claim 10, wherein said O D glucuronic acid is any one of i , tropicamide O D glucuronic acid in its essentially pure form ii tropicamide O D glucuronic acid or iii tropicamide O ss D glucuronic acid. 12. A product which is a tne O ss D glucuronic acid of an ester moiety containing anticholinergic compound having a primary alcohol moiety, when prepared by a process according to claim 1 or claim 2 or b a base addition salt thereof. 13. The product of claim 12, wherein said O D g1ucuronic acid is i scopolamine O ss D glucuronic acid ii hyoscyamine O D glucuronic acid or iii atropine O ss D glucuronic acid.

## Description
GLUCURONIDES AND METIIODS FOR TilEIR PREPARATION The preparation of P glucuronides has been carried out by a number of different techniques.Chemical synthesis typically involves condensation of a suitably protected aglycon with an alkyl 2,3,4 tri O acetyl ss D glucopyranosyl halide glucuronate followed by deprotection of the glucuronide and aglycon Ando, K., Suzuki, S., andArita, M. 1970 J. Antibiotics 23, 408 Sarett,L.H., Strachan, R.G., and Hirschmass, R.F. 1966 U.S. Patent 3,240,777 . A second approach involves feeding large amounts of the aglycon to animals, collecting their urine and isolating the glucuronide Ifornke, I., Fehihaber, H.W., Uihlein,M. 1979 U.S. Patent 4,153,697 .Alternatively, the animal can be sacrificed and the bile isolated from its gall bladder from which the glucuronide is purified DeLuca, H.F., Schnoes, H.K., andLeVan, L.. 1981 U.S. Patent 4,292,250 . This in vivo synthesis is catalyzed by the class of enzymes known as uridine diphosoglucuronyl transferases. In vitro use of the enzyme to produce various ss glucuronides had bccn reported for example, a phcnolic compound has been glucuronidated Johnson, D.B., Swanson, .J., Darker, C.W., Fanska, C.B., and blurrill, E.E. 11979 Prep. Diochcm. 9, 391 . An in vitro enzymatic process for the synthesis of z glucuronides has several advantages over prior art chemical synthesis or animal feeding methods.Chemical synthesis requires a minimum of four steps 1 protection of all the nucleophilic groups in the aglycon except the one involved in the glycosidic linkage, 2 preparation of a suitably protected reactive derivative of D glucuronic acid, e.g., methyl 2,3,4 tri O acetyl ss D glucopyranosyl halide glucuronate, 3 condensation, and 4 deprotection.Complications arise if the aglycon contains functional groups sensitive to the conditions of deprotection.For example, aglycons containing esters or other alkali sensitive linkages can be hydrolyzed during the saponification of the methyl and acetyl protecting groups. The animal feeding approach to making glucuronides also has several disadvantages as compared to an in vitro enzymatic method. The most significant disadvantage is that stringent purification is required. In contrast, an in vitro enzymatic process involves a single steP condensation between a readily available cofactor and the aglycon. The present invention provides a process for preparing the o ,3 D glucuronic acid of a compound having a primary alcohol moiety characterised by converting said compound having a primary alcohol moiety to its corresponding O glucuronic acid derivative by an in vitro enzymatic process. The present invention also provides a process for separating ammonium tropicamide O 4 D glucuronic acid and ammonium tropicamide O J3 D glucuronic acid from ammonium , tropicamide O 3 D glucuronic acid characterised by subjecting ammonium , tropicamide O P D glucuronic acid to reversed phase liquid chromatography. We have found, for example, that upon incubating liver microsomes in the presence of a suitable buffer to maintain the pH at about 7 to about 8.5, , tropicamide, and uridine 5 diphosphoglucuronic acid UDPGA , for a sufficient time, there is obtained a preparation of , tropicamide O ss D glucuronide. An ammonium salt mixture of these glucuronides can be isolated in its essentially pure form by reversed phase chromatography. The diastereomers can be completely resolved to their essentially pure forms by a high pressure liquid chromatographic IIPLC system disclosed herein. Novel glucuronides of ester containing anticholinergics are prepared by first removing all of substantially all of the esterase activity from liver microsomes. These esterases are removed since they will hydrolyze the aglycon and or its glucuronic acid derivative. This operation can be done by washing the liver microsomes in a suitable buffer, as described herein, or by other equivalent washing means known to persons in this art. Advantageously, an esterase inhibitor can be used to supplement the washing of the microsomes. For example, a competitive inhibitor of the esterases such as lysine ethyl ester, and the like, or a suicide substrate such as phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, and the like, can be used.The thus obtained liver microsomes are then incubated for a sufficient length of time with the following 1 a suitable buffer to maintain the pM at about 7 to about 8.5 2 an ester containing anticholinergic having a primary alcohol and 3 UDPGA uridine 5 diphosphoglucuronic acid . It will be realised that the esterase inhibitor is retained in the microsomes so that it prevents any residual esterase activity in the incubation step. A sufficient length of time for incubation is that which allows the conjugation of the aglycon with glucuronic acid. The above processes utilize the cofactor uridine 5 diphosphoglucuronic acid UDPGA . The following process, advantageously, eliminates the need for this relatively expensive cofactor. Upon reacting a solution of D glucuronic acid with a solution of a compound which has a primary alcohol, and a solution of รง glucuronidase for a time sufficient to form the glucuronide, there is obtained the O ss D glucuronide of said compound. More specifically, a solution of glucuronic acid is reacted with a solution of a compound, e.g., tropicamide, scopolamine, hyoscyamine, atropine, and like acceptor substrates which have a primary alcohol, and a solution of glucuronidase, to give the Ow D glucuronide of said compound. Any e glucuronidase can be used in the process, e.g., E. coli, bovine liver,Mollusk, and the like. These named are perhaps the most readily available Wi glucuronidases. A wide range of concentration of reactants can be used in the process so long as the particular reactant is in solution. Advantageously, the higher the concentration of glucuronic acid, the higher the yield of the desired O D glucuronide. The invention also comprehends the products of a process according to the invention and base addition salts thereof. Compounds embodying the invention are useful because of their absorption of ultraviolet light. They can be used as ultraviolet absorbents in technical and industrial areas as follows a Textile materials such textile materials may consist of natural materials of animal origin, such as wool or silk, or of vegetable origin, such as cellulosic materials of cotton, hemp, flax, or linen, and also semi synthetic materials, such as regenerate cellulose, for example, artificial silk viscoses, including staple fibers of regenerated cellulose. b Fibrous materials of other kinds that is to say, not textile materials which may be of animal original, such as feathers, hair, straw, wood, wood pulp or fibrous materials consisting of compacted fibers, such as paper, cardboard or compressed wood, and also materials made from the latter and also paper masses, for example, hollander masses, used for making paper. c Coating or dressing agent for textiles or paper. d Lacquers or films of various compositions. e Natural or synthetic resins. f Natural rubber like materials. g Filter layers for photographic purposes, especially for color photography. Depending on the nature of the material to be treated, the requirements with regard to the degree of activity and durability, and other factors, the proportion of the light screening agent to be incorporated in the material may vary within fairly wide limits, for example, from about 0.01 to 10, and, advantageously, 0.1 to 2 , of the weight of the material which is to be directly protected against the action of ultraviolet rays. The glucuronides demostrate enhanced water solubility. This property can be advantageous for the pharmaceutical use of medicinals, for example, mycophenolic acid glucuronide. See U.S. Patents 3,777,020 and 3,758,455. Other uses for glucuronides are as cardiotonie agents U.S. 4,335,131 vitamin D derivatives U.S. 4,292,250 gastric acid secretion inhibitors European Patent Application 52 074 and as antitumor agents U.S. 3,758,455 . The above enzymatic process for the glucuronidation of , tropicamide involving UDPGA was unexpectedly successful in view of the fact that attempts to glucuronidate another primary alcohol, i.e. scopolamine, by this method were unsuccessful. Also, there is no known prior art which discloses the preparation of essentially pure , tropicamide O 4 D glucuronide and tropicamide O D glucuronide. The subject process is particularly advantageous because the reaction yields a single pair of stereospecific products, as disclosed above. The above enzymatic process for tne glucuronidation of ester containing anticholinergics involving UDPGA was unexpectedly successful in view of the fact that prior attempts to glucuronidate the ester containing anticholinergic scopolamine were unsuccessful. We believe this process is the first known in vitro enzymatic process for preparing glucuronides of estercontaining anticholinergics having a primary alcohol. The enzymatic reaction, described herein, can be carried out over a pH range of about 7 to about 8.5 with different buffer strengths and with various buffers, for example5 sodium N 2 hydroxyethyl piperazine N 2 ethanesulfonic acid, 3 tris hydroxymethyl methyl amino propane sulfonic acid, tris hydrochloride, and the like. Quantitative glucuronidation of , tropicamide can be obtained by increasing the amount of UDP glucuronic acid in the reaction. Liver microsomes which can be used can be obtained from animal sources, for example, rabbit, bovine, rat, and the like. The temperature of incubation in the enzymatic step can be from about 200 to about 450C. As disclosed above, as well as the processes using the cofactor uridine 5 diphosphoglucuronic acid UDPGA we have developed a process which eliminates the need for this cofactor. It not only dispenses with the use of UDPGA by the use of a very inexpensive reactant, but, advantageously, it can be used to prepare the o 3 D glucuronide of any compound containing a primary alcohol. Unexpectedly, the 0 rZ D glucuronide of phenols cleavable by ss glucuronidase, as well as sqcondary and tertiary alcohols, cannot be prepared in this way. He believe this process is the only known process which utilizes reversal of hydrolysis by ss glucuroni ase in an in vitro biosynthetic reaction. The chromatographic methods used are based on reversed phase liquid chromatography on e.g. C 18 silica supports. This technique is well suited for the purifscation of enzymaticallyproduced glucuronides of hydrophobic compounds.Unreacted aglycon is much more hydrophobic than the corresponding glucuronide and thus will be well resolved on reversed phase systems. The cofactor, UDP glucuronic acid, and the byproduct,UDP, are both very hydrophilic and will be much less retained than the glucuronide of a hydrophobic compound. Finally, all the solvent systems described are based on NH40Ac, a volatile buffer.Modifications to this system may be necessary in order to purify glucuronides of very hydrophilic compounds. Other reversed phase stationary supports, for example phenyl silica, C S silica, and the like, can be used. The resolution of the two tropicamide diastereomers is enhanced when the pH is lowered from 7.0 to 3.7, which would increase the fraction of the molecules in the zwittcrionic form necessary for an intramolecular ionic interaction. In addition, increasing the ionic strcngth from 0.13 N1I4OAc to 1 NH4OAc diminishes the resolution as would be expected if an intramolecular salt bridge were present. The following Examples are illustrative of the process and products of the invention, but are not to be construed as limiting. All percentages are by weight and all solvent mixture proportions are by volume unless otherwise noted.Example l Enzvmatic preparation of , tropicamide O ss D alucuronide. Four grams of a rabbit liver or bovine liver microsomal fraction Sigma Chemical Co., St.Louis, Mo. are suspended in 100 ml of a 75 mbl tris hydrochloride buffer pH 7.5 8.0 . The microsomes are suspended by repeatedly drawing the mixture through a pipette tip. The microsomes are then pelleted by centrifugation at 100,000 g for 30 minutes. The supernatant is discarded, and the pellet is resuspended to 100 ml with a 150 iu4 tris hydrochloride pH 7. 5 8.0 solution, containing 200 mg , tropicamide Hoffman LaRoche, Nutley,N.J., also disclosed in U.S. Patent 2,726,245 and 1 gram of sodium uridine 5 diphosphoglucuronic acid Sigma Chemical Co. . After a 20 hr. incubation at 370C, the reaction is terminated by heating to about 700C, and centrifuging the reaction mixture. The desired product is in the supernatant. The yield of desired product is determined by high pressure liquid chromotography HPLC to be 75 . The HPLC conditions are as follows a .39 x 30 cm C 18 tBondapak column Waters Associates, Milford, Mass. is eluted at 2 ml min. with .1 NH4OAc pH 5.75 . After injection of the sample, a linear gradient to 60to methanol is applied to the column over a 20 minute period. The column eluant is monitored with an ultraviolet detector set at 254 nm. Under these conditions the reaction product elutes as a partially resolved doublet. On the basis of the chemical and spectral data presented below the two peaks are assigned as tropicamide O P D glucuronide and tropicamide O ss D glucuronide. Example 2 Isolation of essentiallv pure , tropicamide 0 B D glucuronide. The pH of the reaction mixture, obtained inExample 1, is adjusted to 5.75 with 1.26 ml of 108 NH40Ac pH 5.75 25 ml of methanol is added to the reaction, and the suspension is centrifuged at 44,000 g for 60 minutes. The supernatant is collected and loaded onto a 15 i jn by 250 cm column of octadecyl derivatized silica 50 100 pparti cles Waters Associates which had been equilibrated with an 80 20 solution of .1 NH4OAc pil 5.75 methanol. The column is washed at 3 ml min. until the absorbance of the eluant at 254 nm is les than .05.Essentially pure , tropicamide O P D glucuronide is then eluted with a 55 45 solution of .13 NH4OAc pN 5.75 methanol,Unreacted , tropicamide is eluted from the column with a 40 60 solution of .1 Nil40Ac pll 5,75 mcthanol. The desired product contains less than 1 of , tropicamide contamination. Example 3 Separation of and tronicamide O P D glucuronide. The two isomers are isolated from the mixture obtained in Example 2 as follows The two isomers by HPLC on a .39 x 30 cm column of C 18 pBondapak Waters Associates . The column is equilibrated with .013 M NH4OAc pH 3.7 containing 10 methanol at a flow rate of 2 ml min. One minute after injection of the sample, the percentage of methanol in the eluant is raised to 22 in one minute. The two diastereomers elute at about eleven and theirteen minutes, respectively. Retention times vary with column condition and the optimal concentration of methanol is normally determined with analytical injections.The two diastereomers are obtained in their essentially pure form.Characterization of and tropicamide O P D glucuronide. The two reactionproducts 50 ug in 150 ul of 50 m1 sodium phosphate, ply 6.8 are individually treated with ten Fishman units of E. coli 8 glucuronidase EC 3.2.1.31 at 370C for 1 hour.Both compounds are quantitatively hydrolyzed by the glucuronidase to products which were indistinguishable by HPLC from the starting material, , tropicamide, in the .1 NH4OAc pH 5.75 methanol solvent system described above.The products are also indistinguishable from , tropicamide when chromatographed on C 18 in a second solvent system consisting of 1 triethylammonium acetate pH 7.0 eluted with a linear gradient to 50 acetonitrile in 25 minutes.These data show that both products contain an intact tropicamide moiety. The known specificity of the enzyme shows the presence of a glucuronic acid moiety and shows that the glycosidic linkage has the P configuration. The tropicamides released by glucuronidase treatment are individually converted back to the corresponding glucuronides using the conditions described above.These reactions produced single products, i.e., the tropicamide derived from glucuronidase treatment of component 1 yields only component 1, and the tropicamide derived from component 2 yields only component 2. Thus the two products are diastereomers which differ only in the configura tion of the optically active carbon in the tropicamide moiety. The products of P glucuronidase hydrolysis are further characterized by their rotation of 589 nm plane polarized light. These measurements show that the component which elutes earlier in theHPLC assay is dextrorotatory and the later eluting compound is levorotatory. Experiments with lesser amounts of E. coli glucuronidase show that the hydrolysis rate of tropicamide O P Dglucuronide is approximately twice as rapid as tropicamide O P D giucuronide. The ultraviolet spectra of , tropica mide, tropicamide O ss D glucuronide, and tropicamid O ss D glucuronide are recorded in a .058 Ni4OAc pH 7.0 solution. All three samples have identical spectra with maxima at 257 nm Emax 2140 and shoulders at 252 nm and 263 nm characteristic of a para substituted pyridone moiety. The molecular weights of the two diastereomers are determined by direct chemical ionization DCI1 mass spectrometry and fast atom bombardment FAB mass spectrometry. The ammonia DCI spectrum of each isomer gives a quasi molecular ion at m z 461 M H , confirming the molecular weight as 460. Similarly the zenon FAB sepctrum of both isomers contains a series of ions at m z 461 M H , m z 483 M Na , and m z 499 b1 K clearly showing a molecular weight of 460. The infrared spectra in KBr pellets of the two tropicamide glucuronides both exhibit strong absorption bands centered at 3150 cm 1 and 1400 cm 1 confirming that the ammonium salt had been formed as expected. Both compounds also exhibit a broad band at 1600 en. 1 which is consistent with the presence of both a carboxylate and a tertiary amide carbonyl. In addition, a shoulder at 3550 cm is consistent with the hydroxy groups in the glucuronides. The ammonium and other base salts of the compounds are useful in the same manner as the free acid form. If desired the ammonium salt can be converted to the free acid by means well known in the art, for example, by adjusting the pH of the ammonium salt solution with a weak acid so as not to cause hydrolysis of the diastereomer.Salts with both inorganic and organic bases can be formed with the free acid. For example, in addition to ammonium salt, there also can be formed the sodium, potassium, calcium, and the like, by neutralizing an aqueous solution of the free acid. Tropicamide O ss D glucuronic acid has the following formula EMI15.1 Example 4 Preparation of scooolamine O ss D glucuronic acid. Four hundred milligrams of rabbit liver or bovine liver microsomal fraction Sigma ChemicalCo. , containing uridine 5 diphosphoglucuronyl transferase, is suspended in 20 ml of a 75 mM tris C1 buffer pH 8.0 . The microsomes are suspended by repeatedly drawing the mixture through a pipette tip. The microsomes are then pelleted by centrifugation at 44,000 g for 20 minutes. The supernatant is discarded, the pellet washed a second time, and the pellet rcsuspcnded to 10 ml with a 75 mM tris HC1 pH 8.0 solution containing 20 mg scopolamine Sigma and 140 mg of sodium uridine 5 diphosphoglucuronic acid Sigma .In addition, the reaction mixture contains either 100 ntl lysine ethyl ester Sigma or 10 pM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride PMSF Sigma which had been predissolved in a small volume of propanol immediately before addition. After a 20 hour incubation at 37 C, the reaction is terminated by heating the sample for two minutes at 700C, followed by centrifugation at 44,000 g for 20 minutes. The supernatant is removed and analzed by HPLC. The yield of desired product is determined to be 959, The HPLC conditions are as follows a .39 x 30 cm C 18 pBondapak column Waters Associates is eluted at 2 ml min. with .18 NH40Ac pH 7.5 . After injection of the sample, a linear gradient to 60 methanol is applied to the column over a 20 minute period. The column eluant is monitored with an ultraviolet detector set at 254 nm. Under these conditions the reaction product has a retention time of 12 minutes, whereas scopolamine has a retention time of N18 minutes. On the basis of the chemical and spectral data presented below, the product is assigned as scopolamine 0 P D glucuronide. Example 5 Preparation of hyosevamine O ss D glucuronic acid. The reaction conditions are identical to those utilized for scopolamine in Example 4. The concentration of hyoscyamine is 2 mg ml and the reaction is carried out for 20 hours. Example 6 Isolation of scopolamine O ss D qlucuronide and hyoscyamine O ss D alucuronic acid. The glucuronides are isolated with the HPLC system described above. Typically, 25 pl of 1 NH4OAc pH 7.5 is added to 225 1 of the reaction supernatant, and the entire sample is injected.Larger amounts can be prepared with a preparative chromatography system.Characterization of scotolamine O ss D glucuronic acid. The reaction product 150 ng in 450 ul of 50 mM sodium phosphate, pH 6.8 is treated with 150Fishman units of E. coli ss glucuronidase EC 3.2.1.31 at 370C for two hours. The.compound is quantitatively hydrolyzed by the glucuronidase to product which is indistinguishable by HPLC from the starting material, scopolamine, in the .1 NH4OAc pH 7.5 methanol solvent system described above. The glucuronidase product is also indistinguishable from scopolamine when chronatographed on C 18 in a second solvent system consisting of 1 triethylarrmonium acetate pH 7.0 eluted with a linear gradient to 502 acetonitrile in 25 minutes.Since the chromatographic behavior of scopolamine is markedly affected by pH in the range of pH 5 8, the hydrolysis product is chronatographea in a third solvent system consisting of .1 NlI40Ac pH 5.0 eluted with a lincar gradient to 50 acetonitrile in 25 minutes and found to be identical to scopolamine. These data indicate that the product contains an intact scopolamine moiety. The known specificity of this enzyme indicates the presence of a glucuronic acid moiety and indicates that the glycosidic linkage has the P configuration. The ultraviolet spectrum of the reaction product is recorded in .058 NH40Ac pH 7.O and compared to the spectrum of scopolamine. Both compounds exhibit maxima at 252 nm, 258 nm, and. 263.ion, and a strong end absorption beginning at 240 nm, indicating that the glucuronide contains an intact tropic acid moiety. The molecular weight of the product is determined by fast atom bombardment PAB mass spectrometry. The xenon FAB spectrun contained a single ion at m z 480 M H , clearly indicating a molecular weight of 479. The exact mass of the M H ion is determined by peak matching to be 480.186, which is in excellent agreement with the mass expected for a compound with this elemental composition, 480.187. Scopolamine O ss D glucuronic acid has the following structure EMI18.1 Characterization of hyoscvamine O B D glucuronic acid. The HPLC system used to assay the synthesis of hyoscyamine O P D glucuronic acid consists of a linear gradient from .18 NH4OAc pH 5.75 to 60 methanol in twenty minutes. All other parameters are identical to the chromatography described above for scopolamine. Under these conditions the hyoscyamine elutes slightly after scopolamine, and the product of the transferase reaction elutes slightly after scopolamine O P D glucuronic acid, indicating that the expected glucuronide is formed. This product is purified by HPLC. Approxinately 40 pg is dissolved in 400 1 of 50 mbl sodium phosphate pH 6.8 containing 1000 U ml of E. coli B glucuronidase. Immediately after addition of the enzyme and after a one hour incubation at 370C, 50 ul aliquots are removed, heated at 700C for 1 minute and analyzed by HPLC.The aglycon released from the glucuronide and hyoscyamine have identical retention in the .1 NH4OAc pH 5.75 methanol solvent system described above. Hyoscyamine O ss D glucuronic acid has the following structure EMI20.1 Esterase cleavaqe of scopolamine and scopolamine O ss D glucuronic acid. To 150 l of 150 mM tris HC1 pH 8.O solution containing .7 mM scopolamine and an equimolar amount of scopolamine O ss D glucuronic acid is added 1 mg of unwashed rabbit UDPGA dependent glucuronyl transferase. Immediately after addition of the enzyme, 50 l are removed and incubated at 700C for 1 minute and centrifuged at 14,000 g for 5 minutes. The supernatant 40 l is removed 4 ul of 1 NH4OAc pH 7.5 is added, and the sample is analyzed by lIPLC using the .1 NH4OAc pH 7.5 methanol solvent system described above. A second 50 ul sample is prepared and analyzed after a 2 hour incubation at 370C. Example 7. Upon substituting atropine in Example 5 for hyoscyamine, there is obtained atropine 0 ss D glucuronic acid.Example 8. Upon substituting other ester containing anticholinergics having a primary alcohol inExample 4 for scopolamine, there are obtained the corresponding ester containing anticholinergic 0 ss D glucuronic acids.ExamPle 9. Salts with both inorganic and organic bases can be formed with the free acid of the compounds embodying the invention. Fo example, in addition to the ammonium salt, there also can be formed the sodium, potassium, calcium, and the like, by neutralizing an aqueous solution of the free acid with the corresponding base. The ammonium and other base salts of the compounds embodying the invention are useful in the same manner as the free acid form.Example 10 Svnthesis of , troicamide 0 ss D glucuronic acid by reverse hydrolysis. A 1.7 M sodium D glucuronic acid stock solution is prepared by adding 16.5 gm of glucuronic acid to 40 ml of 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer the pH is adjusted two 6.8 with 5 N NaOH, and the final volume is adjusted to 50 ml with sodium 50 mM sodium phosphate pH 6.8 . A 300 1 enzyme reaction is prepared by combining 100 Zul of the 1.7 M solution of sodiumD glucuronic acid, 100 1 of a 5 mg ml solution of tropicamide, 30 rl of a .5 M solution of sodium phosphate pH 6.8 , 50 ul of water and 20 jul of a 1000 Unit ml solution of freshly dissolved E. coli ss glucuronidase E.C. 3.2.1.31 Sigma Type III,Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, Mo. .Immediately after addition of the enzyme, a 25 yl aliquot is removed and incubated at 3 0 C. Both samples are diluted with an equal volume of .1 NH4OAc pH 5.75 and analyzed by high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC as follows a .39 x 30 cm C 18 pBondapak column Waters Associates, Milford,Mass. is eluted at 2 ml min. with .18 NH4OAc pH 5.75 . After injection of the sample, a linear gradient to 60 methanal is applied to the column over a 20 minute period. The column eluant is monitored with an ultraviolet detector set at 254 nm. Approximately 1 of the tropicamide is converted to the corresponding O ss D glucuronic acid derivative.Example 11 Separation of and tropicamide O B Dglucuronide. The two isomers are isolated from a mixture and characterized as disclosed in Example 3. The ammonium and other base salts of the compounds are useful in the same manner as the free acid form. If desired the ammonium salt can be converted to the free acid as described inExample 3. Example 12 Synthesis of scopolamine 0 Dglucuronic acid by reverse hydrolysis. To a vial containing 1000 Units of lyophilized E. coli ss glucuronidase is added 300 pl of a 100 mg ml solution of scopolamine, 2.4 ml of the 1.7 M sodium glucuronic acid stock solution described in Example 10, and 300 1 of a 0.5 M sodium phosphate solution pH 6.8 . Samples 50 p13 are taken immediately after mixing and after a 20 hour incubation at 370C. The enzyme is inactivated by heating as described in Example 10.Samples are diluted with an equal volume of 0.1t NH4OAc pH 7.5 and analyzed by HPLC using the system described in Example 4. This product is characterized as described in Example 6.Example 13 Synthesis of tropicamide O p D glucuronic acid with bovine liver P glucuronidase b reverse hydrolysis. a 1.2 ml solution containing 0.85 M glucuronic acid, 4 mg ml tropicamide, 48,00 Units of bovine liver p glucuronidase Sigma Type B 1,Sigma Chemical Co. and 50 ndd NaOAc pH 5.0 is incubated at 370C. After 20 hours 50 1 is removed and heated at 700C for one minute, spiked with 5 1 of 1 NH4OAc pH 7.5 and analyzed byHPLC using the conditions described above for the analysis of scopolamine glucuronic acid. The product of the reaction has an identical retention time as standard , tropicamide O P D glucuronic acid.Approximately 5 pg of product is isolated by HPLC of which 2 pg is dissolved in 122 ul of 50 mM sodium phosphate pit 6.8 , to which is added 122 ul of a 1000 Unit ml solution of E. coli P glucuronidase. The product is quantitatively converted to tropicamide after a 10 minute incubation at 370C judged by HPLC analysis.Example 14 Synthesis of tropicamide O p D glucuronic acid with Mollusk glucuronidase bv reverse hydrolysis. A 1 ml solution containing 4 mg tropicamide and 1.2 M glucuronic acid is adjusted to pH 3.8 with concentrated hydrochloric acid. This solution is combined with a 1 ml solution containing 4064 Units of Abalone P glucuronidase Sigma in 50 mbl sodium acetate pH 3.8 . After a 16 hour incubation, a 50 1 aliquot is heated and analyzed by HPLC as described above for the bovine p glucuronidase reaction. A product peak with retention time equal to that of tropicamide 0 ss D glucuronic acid standard is observed. Example 15. Upon substituting atropine in Example i2 for scopolamine, there is obtained atropine O P Dglucuronic acid.Example 16. Upon substituting hyoscyamine in Example 12 for scopolamine, there is obtained hyoscyamine 0 S D glucuronic acid.Example 17 Upon substituting other acceptor substrates which have a primary alcohol for tropicamide inExample 10, or in Example 12 for scopolamine, there is obtained the corresponding glucuronide of the acceptor substrate used in the reaction. Example 18. Upon substituting any anticholinergic having a primary alcohol for tropicamide in Example 10, or in Example 12 for scopolamine, there is obtained the corresponding glucuronide of said anticholinergic.Example 19. Salts with both inorganic and organic bases can be formed with the free acid of the compounds prepared by the subject process. For example, in addition to the ammonium salt, there also can be formed the sodium, potassium, calcium, and the like, by neutralizing an aqueous solution of free acid with the corresponding base. The ammoniun and other base salts of the compounds are useful in the same manner as the free acid forms.