# An electronic relay and protector for single phase hermetic compressors.

## Abstract
The present day Current and Potential relays used in conjunction with the thermic protectors on hermetic refrigeration compressors cannot fully meet the requirements for a complete protection and operation. Due to large variations of the voltage conditions and refrigeration demands a great many compressors are burned or damaged yearly. Therefore, it is a general opinion that today s classical Current and Potential relays with their bi metallic overloads cannot cope with the problems of the field demands. In the new design 1. If the compressor starts properly and attains about 80 of its synchronous speed a low current signal is picked by and electronic circuit of a triac and thus the heavy current bath permits the line current of the compressor to continue to pass. 2. In the absence of this singal, no proper start condition, a miniature low current protector is rapidly heated by a PTC Positiv Temperature Coefficient Thermistor controlling the start winding and immediately cuts the heavy line current by acting on the triac and thus stopping the compressor. 3. Due to the heat of the PTC this miniature protector remains open for 4 5 minutes thus allowing the compressor motor to restart under the best of refrigeration conditions.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 Control of large line currents 12 by weak signal 6 . 2 Capacity of the triac 11 is the only limiting factor. 3 Use of the heat of the PTC 8 for slow cycling. 4 Use of the back E.M.F. as opto electronie control 5 , 6 for safe starts.

## Description
AN W . Lffi A PROTECTOR FOR SINGLE PHASE HERMETICCOMPRESSOPS The preset day Ourrent and Potential relays used in conjunction with the thermic protectors on hermetic refrigeration compressors can not fully meet the requirements for a complete protection and operation. Due to large variations of the voltage conditions and refrigeration demands a great many compressors are burned or damaged yearly.Therefore, it is a general opinion that today 5 classical Ourrent and Potential relays with their tbi..metallic overloads can not cope with the problems of the field demands. In the new design 1 If the compressor starts properly and attains about 80 of its synchronous speed a low current signal is picked by and electronic cirouit of a triac and thus the heavy ourrent path permits the line current of the compressor to continue to pass.2 In the absence of this signal, no proper start condition, a miniature low current protector is rapidly heated by a PTC Positiv Temperature Coefficient Thermistor controlling the start winding and immediately cuts the heavy line current by acting on the triac and thus stopping the compressor.3 Due to the heat of the PTC this minature protector remains open for 4 trinutes thus allowing the compressor motor to restart under the best of refrigeration conditions.Thus the acntages are 1 A large field of application for a single type of relay from 1 12 to 1 1 2 HP compressors.2 Due to tne use of PTC it is basically a potential relay keeping the start winding closed at the starts under any voltage conditions. This is not being the case with the current relays.3 It gives a much longer tdwell V time during starts for the start winding but has a positiv safe opening feature for both winding during stalls. 4 At the low and high voltages no flickeiihg or chattering contacts at all.5 No cold or hot motor problems with the high and low voltages respectively.6 Absolutely no contacts to pit or to get stuck.7 Independent hanging position.8 It is detually a threa in onp eppli a A relay b A protector c An anti short cycler 9 No appreciable voltage drop on the main winding. 10 It is definitely an energy saver. By eliminating the quick on and off trials of a hard start compressor it keeps the winding cool and the refrigeration internal pressure balanced for the no load condition starts.