# Cutting tool and cutting insert therefor.

## Abstract
A cutting tool comprising a slotted tool shank 12 . A cutting insert 10 is secured in the slot 30 by means of a clamping bolt 13 . A supporting member 14 in the tool shank 12 and the insert 10 having cooperating surfaces 16, 17 26, 27, 28, 29 adapted to prevent the insert 10 from being turned around the clamping bolt 13 .

## Claims
Claims 1. A cutting tool, particularly a milling tool for milling grooves of substantially semicircular cross section, comprising a tool shank 12 provided at the front end thereof with a slot 30 , said slot being adapted to receive an indexable cutting insert 10 , said cutting insert having a bore 31 adapted to receive a clamping bolt 13 which extends transversely through the front end 11 of the tool shank 12 and which is adapted to clamp the cutting insert 10 to the side walls of said slot, a supporting member 14 in said tool shank, said supporting member having supporting surface means 16, 17 adapted to cooperate with corresponding contact surface means 26, 27 28, 29 on the cutting insert 10 , c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said supporting surface means comprises two mutually inclined supporting surfaces 16, 17 having a width which is larger at a rear portion 16 , 17 of the supporting member 14 than at a forward portion 16 , 17Az thereof. 2. A cutting tool according to claim 1, wherein the supporting surfaces 16, 17 are planar. 3. A cutting tool according to claim 2, wherein the supporting surfaces 16, 17 are disposed on opposite sides of the centre axis 32 of the tool shank 12 . 4. A cutting tool according to claim 3, wherein the radially inner ends of the rearmost portions 16 , 17 extend to the centre axis 32 of the tool shank 12 . 5. A cutting tool according to any of claims 1 4, wherein the supporting surfaces 16, 17 intersect each other at a position 33 laterally spaced from the centre axis 32 of the tool shank 12 . 6. A cutting tool according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the supporting member 14 is spring biassed. 7. A cutting tool according to claim 6, wherein the clamping bolt 13 comprises means 34 for forcing the cutting insert 10 and the supporting member 14 rearwards against springaction upon rotation thereof. 8. An indexable cutting insert intended to be used in a cutting tool according to claim 1, comprising two pairs of cutting edges 20, 21 22, 23 which are curved in the axial direction of the cutting tool 12 , and contact surface means 26, 27 28, 29 adapted to cooperate with corresponding supporting surface means 16, 17 on the cutting tool 12 , c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said contact surface means comprises two pairs of contact surfaces 26, 27 28, 29 , each pair comprising two mutually inclined planar surfaces disposed at opposite sides of the cutting insert 10 . 9. A cutting insert according to claim 8, wherein the planar surfaces 26, 27 28, 29 have a width which is larger at a forward portion 211 than at a rear portion 21 t thereof. 10. A cutting insert according to claim 9, wherein the cutting edges 20, 21, 22, 23 are generally circular arc shaped.

## Description
Cutting tool and cutting insert thereforeThe present invention relates to a cutting tool comprising a tool shank provided at the forward end thereof with a slot which is adapted to receive an indexable cutting insert.The cutting insert has a bore for receiving a clamping bolt which extends transversely through the front end of the tool shank, and which is adapted to clamp the cutting insert to the side walls of the slot. A supporting member provided in the tool shank has supporting surface means adapted to cooperate with corresponding contact surface means on the cutting insert.The invention also relates to a cutting insert particularly designed to be used in a cutting tool of this type.A cutting tool of this prior art type is disclosed inDE 3022104 Al. In this previously known tool rotation of the cutting insert around the clamping bolt is prevented by a protrusion on the supporting member which projects into a recess in the cutting insert.The object of the present invention is to provide a cutting tool of the above defined type, wherein rotation or the cutting insert is prevented in a simple and reliable manner merely by using the supporting surface means on the supporting member.The above and other objects have been attained by giving the invention the characterizing features stated in the claims following hereinafter.The invention is described in detail in the following with reference to the accompanying drawings in which one embodiment is shown by way of example. It is to be understood that this embodiment is only illustrative of the invention and that various modifications thereof may be made within the scope of the claims. In the drawings, Fig. 1 shows a side view of the front end of the milling tool, partly in section.Fig. 2 shows a sectional side view in the direction of the arrow P in Fig. 1.Fig. 3 shows a side view of the supporting member.Fig. 4 shows a front view of the supporting member in Fig. 3.Fig. 5 shows a perspective view of the cutting insert.Fig. 6 shows a top view of the cutting insert in Fig. 5.Fig. 7 shows a side view of the cutting insert in Fig. 6.The cutting tool according to the invention comprises a tool shank 12 having a semispherical head 11. In the illustrated embodiment the cutting tool is a milling tool for milling grooves of substantially semicircular cross section. The head 11 is provided with a slot 30 which receives an indexable cutting insert 10. The cutting insert 10 is clamped to the side walls of the slot 30 by means of a clamping bolt 13 which extends through a bore 31 in the cutting insert 10.In the tool shank 12 there is provided a supporting member comprising a head 14 and an axially extending rod 15. The head 14 is formed with two mutually inclined surfaces 18, 19 the outer portions thereof providing two supporting surfaces 16, 17 for supporting the cutting insert 10 over either of two pairs of planar contact surfaces, 26, 27 and 28, 29, respectively, thereon. Generally, the supporting surfaces 16, 17 form a Vshaped recess therebetween, preferably with an included angle of 900.The cutting insert 10 is generally circular and comprises two pairs of cutting edges, 20, 21 and 22, 23, respectively.The cutting edges 20, 21, 22, 23 are curved in the axial di rection of the tool shank 12. The side faces 24, 25 of the insert 10 are recessed adjacent to the cutting edges 20, 21, 22, 23 in such a way as to provide the contact surfaces 26, 27, 28, 29. The planar contact surface 27 has larger width at a forward portion 21 thereof than at a rear portion 2111 thereof. The remaining contact surfaces 26, 28, 29 have similar shape.In similar manner the supporting surfaces 16, 17 have larger widths at rear portions 16 , 171 thereof than at forward portions 16l , 17 tri thereof.According to the invention the supporting surfaces 16, 17 intersect each other at a position 33 laterally spaced from the centre axis 32 of the tool shank 12. In the preferred embodiment the radially inner ends of the rearmost portions 161 171 extend to the centre axis 32 of the tool shank 12.In the preferred embodiment the rod 15 is axially displaceable rearwards against spring action in a manner as shown and described in GB 2082102 A, which is incorporated in the specification by way of reference. The bolt 13 is provided with an eccentric portion 34 so that, when screwing the bolt 13 into the head 11, the eccentric portion 34 causes the insert 10 to move against the action of the spring.It is to be understood that the above movement of the insert 10 might be produced in other ways, such as by providing the bolt 13 and the bore 31 in the insert with corresponding cam surfaces. Alternatively, the supporting member 14, 15 might be immovible.