# Circuit and method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver.

## Abstract
A superheterodyne receiver employs as a local oscillator a VCO 125 included in a PLL 115 . Upon depression of a station selecting switch 200 , pulses are generated and counted by a frequency division ratio setting counter. The count value thereof is loaded in the PLL to be displayed as the receiving frequency data and is also subjected to an arithme tic operation to evaluate a difference between the receiving frequency and the frequency of the lowest channel. The dif ference is divided by 3 and the quotient is displayed as the channel number data. The quotient is applied to a circuit, in which the quotient is determined to detect the channel index.

## Claims
Patent claims 1. A superheterodyne receiver including a voltage controlled local oscillator 125 and data setting means 300 for setting frequency data associated with a receiving frequency to be selected for controlling the generation of the control voltage for the local oscillator, characterzied in that arithmetic operating means 600 are provided for converting the frequency data set in said data setting means 300 into channel number data, and that channel number display means 400 are controlled by said arithmetic operating means 600 . 2. A superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 1, wherein one channel number has been allotted to identify a channel group including a plurality m of independent channels, characterized in that said arithmetic operation means comprises substraction means 601 for evaluating a difference between the data associated with the broadcasting frequency of the channel at an extremity of the frequency band and said receiving frequency associated data as set, and division means 605 for dividing said difference thus evaluated by said numerical value m . 3. A superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 2, characterized in that said numerical value m is 3 . 4. A superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 2, characterized in that the channel numbers have been allotted as a series of channels throughout a given frequency band, and said channel at the extremity of said frequency band corresponds to the channel at the extremity of said allotted channels. 5. A superheterodyne reciever in accordance with claim 2, wherein the channel numbers have been allotted as a series of channel numbers throughout a given frequency band, characterized in that said superheterodyne receiver further comprises presetting means 609 for presetting a given specified number corresponding to the number of channels including ozone or more predetermined channels at the extremity of said frequency band which are rendered unreceivable as a result of control of said voltage controlled oscillating means responsive to said receiving frequency associated data, the channel at the extremity of said frequency band corresponds to the channel at the extremity of a series of channels as left receivable when said predetermined channels rendered unreceivable are excluded, and said arithmetic operation means comprises addition subtraction means 607 for adding subtracting said specified number as preset to the quotient obtained by division by means of said division means. 6. A superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 5, characterized in that said preset specified number is t2. 7. A superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 2, characterized in that said arithmetic operation means comprises means 611 for determining the numerical value of the quotient obtained by division by means of said division means for providing data associated with a channel index representing any one of said plurality m of independent channels included in said one channel number, and channel index display means 401 responsive to the output of said channel index associated data providing means for displaying a corresponding channel index. 8. A superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that said voltage controlled oscillating means is included in a phase locked loop 115 , said phase locked loop including programmable frequency dividing means 123 , and said receiving frequency associated data is set as a frequency division ratio in said programmable frequency dividing means. 9. A method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver including a voltage controlled local oscillator and data setting means for setting frequency data associated with a receiving frequency to be selected for controlling the generation of the control voltage for the local oscillator, characterized in that said method comprises the stops of making an arithmetic operation for converting the frequency data set in said data setting means into channel number data and displaying said channel number of the basis of said channel number data obtained by said arithmetic operation step. 10. A method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 9, wherein one channel number has been allotted to identify a channel group including a plurality m of nndependent channels, characterized in that said arithmetic operation step comprises the steps of evaluating a difference between the data associated with the broadcasting frequency of the channel at an extremity of the frequency band and said receiving frequency associated data as set, and dividing said difference thus evaluated by said numerical value m . 11. A method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 10, characterized in that numerical value m is 3 . 12. A method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 10, whereithe channel numbers have been allotted as a series of channels throughout a given frequency band, characterized in that said channel at the extremity of said frequency band corresponding to the channel at the extremity of the allotted channel. 13. A method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 10, wherein the channel numbers have been allotted as a series of channel numbers throughout a given frequency band, characterized in that said method further comprises the step of presetting a given specified number corresponding to the number of channels including one ore more predetermined channels at the extremity of said frequency band which are rendered unreceivable as a result of control of said voltage controlled oscillating means responsive to said receiving frequency associated data, the channel at the extremity of said frequency band corresponding to the channel at the extremity of a series of channels as left receivable when said predetermined channels rendered unreceivable are excluded, and said arithmetic operation step comprises the step of adding subtracting said specified number as preset to the quotient obtained by division by means of said division means. 14. A method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim i3, characterized in that said preset specified number is I2 . 15. A method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim .10, characterized in that said arithmetic operation step comprises the step of determining the numerical value of the quotient obtained by division by means of said division means for providing data associated with a channel index representing any one of said plurality m of independent channels included in said one channel number, and said method further comprises the step of displaying a corresponding channel index responsive to said channel index associated data. 16. A method for controlling a channel display in a superheterodyne receiver in accordance with claim 9, wherein said voltage controlled oscillating means is included in a phase locked loop, said phase locked loop including programmable frequency dividing means, characterized in that said method further comprises the step of setting said receiving frequency associated data as a frequency division ratio in said programmable frequency dividing means.

## Description
Superheterodyne Receiver The present invention relates to a superheterodyne receiver. More specifically, the present invention relates to a superheterodyne receiver employing as a local oscillator a voltage controlled oscillator included in a phase locked loop, adapted to indicate a channel number and a channel index of a receiving channel. Recently an electronic tuning apparatus has been employed in place of mechanical tuning apparatus in a superheterodyne receiver. Such an electronic tuner usually employs a voltage controlled oscillator as a local oscillator. A phase locked loop including a voltage controlled oscillator has also been developed and such a voltage controlled oscillator has also been employed as a local oscillator of a superheterodyne receiver. A digital frequency display has also been proposed which displays in a digital manner the frequency of a broadcasting station now in reception by the use of the digital data based on the data available in a phase locked loop. Typically such a digital frequency indication is made by the use of the numerals of four digits.In spite of the fact that the frequency of a broadcasting station now in reception is displayed with accuracy by a digital frequency display, a problem is encountered by a user that it is often difficult for him to correctly memorize the frequencies of a large number of broadcasting stations. In order to avoid such difficulty, it has been proposed that in a given frequency band, such as an FM band, channel numbers are allotted to the respective broadcasting stations so that a desired broadcasting station can be identified by a corresponding channel number of a decreased number of digits. On the other hand, historically in Europe a broadcasting standard was employed in the FM band until before 1962 in which 56 broadcasting frequencies were determined with the interval frequency of 300 kHz between two adjacent broadcasting frequencies. However, thereafter the standard was revised to a new one in which 168 FM broadcasting frequencies were determined with the interval frequency of 100 kHz between two adjacent broadcasting frequencies. Particularly, the broadcasting frequencies allotted after 1962 were additionally allotted such that two additional broadcasting frequencies come in the vicinity of the broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962.Therefore, one of the broadcasting frequencies allotted after 1962 is 100 kHz lower than the broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962 and the other of the broadcasting frequency allotted after 1962 is 100 kHz higher than the broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962. Nevertheless, as far as the channel number indication is concerned, the broadcasting frequencies allotted after 1962 have been identified by the channel numbers associated with the channel allotted before 1962, but with an additional channel index. For example, the broadcasting frequency of 93.3 MHz is identified asChannel No. 21 or Channel No. 21 in the above described channel indication, wherein the notation 0 indicates that the broadcasting frequency of 93.3 MHz is a broadcasting frequency allotted before 1962.On the other hand, the frequency of 93.2 MHz is identified as Channel No.21 , wherein the notation indicates that the channel of the frequency 93.2 MHz was allotted after 1962 and is of the frequency 100 kHz lower than that of the channel of the same channel number allotted before 1962.The frequency of 93.4 MHz is identified as Channel No.21 , wherein the notation indicates that the channel was allotted after 1962 and is of the frequency 100 kHz higher than the frequency of the channel of the same channel number allotted before 1962. Therefore, according to the channel number indication with the additional channel indexes, a digital indication of the channel number need be followed by an additional indication of the channel indexes such as n li and . A prior art apparatus of interest for indicating both the channel number and the channel index to correctly identify the channel of a given broadcasting station is seen in German patent application, Serial No. P 2362853.7, filed December 18, 1973 and British patent application,Serial No. 33212 1977, filed August 8, 1977. The apparatus disclosed in the above referenced German patent application, Serial No. 2362853.7 is structured such that a local oscillation frequency is counted and a channel number is evaluated based on the count value, whereby the channel number is displayed in a digital number, while the channel index is simultaneously displayed.On the other hand, the apparatus disclosed in the above referenced British patent application , Serial No. 33212 1977 is structured such that a local oscillation frequency is counted and a corresponding one of light emitting diodes disposed in a line associated with the channel numbers is selectively lighted, while the channel index is also displayed. The apparatuses disclosed in both the above referenced applications are structured such that the local oscillation frequency is counted for a predetermined time period, whereupon the receiving frequency is evaluated, while the channel number is further evaluated from the receiving frequency and the channel number is thus displayed. A receiver in which the present invention is employed comprises a voltage controlled oscillator serving as a local oscillator of the receiver. Means is provided for setting data associated with a receiving frequency for providing a control voltage to the voltage controlled oscillator so that the receiving frequency is received by the receiver. The above described data associated with a receiving frequency as set is subjected to an arithmetic operation by means of a suitable operation means so that the receiving frequency associated data is converted into channel number data. A channel display means is driven responsive to the channel number.data as converted. According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a voltage controlled oscillator included in a phase locked loop is emfioyed as a local oscillator. A programmable frequency divider connected to receive the output of the voltage controlled oscillator is provided in the phase locked loop. In case of an electronic tuner employing such a frequency synthesizer, the local oscillation frequency or the oscillation frequency of the voltage controlled oscillator can be adjusted by simply setting a frequency division ratio corresponding to the broadcasting frequency of a desired channel in the above described programmable frequency divider. A frequency division ratio to be set in the programmable frequency divider is set by means of receiving frequency data setting means. In accordance with one embodiment of the present. invention, a difference between a receiving frequency determined by receiving frequency data as set as a frequency division ratio and a broadcasting frequency of a channel at a extremity of a frequency band to which the receiving frequency belongs is evaluated. The above described difference is then divided by the number m of the independent channels belonging to and identified by one channel number. The quotient obtained by the division is used as channel number data. According to another embodiment of the present invention, the receiver is adapted such that only those channels allotted to the above described frequency band excluding Channel Nos.O and 1, for example, at an extremity end portion of the frequency band i.e. only those channels of the channel number larger than ChannelNo. 2, for example, are receivable. The purpose is that in case of an FM band, for example, Channel Nos. 0 and 1 are allotted for police wireless communication and therefore should be unreceivable by receivers for use by the general public.In case of such a receiver that has been adapted such that only those channels of the channel number larger than Channel No. 2 are receivable, the broadcasting frequency of the lowest channel among the receivable channels may be used as the lowest frequency data. In such a case, the number of channels rendered unreceivable, say the number 2 is added to the qu o l obtained by the above described division, so that the channel number data may be obtained. A remain rer. determining circuit is provided f x determining tho remainder of the above described quotient. The remainder determining circuit determines the above described quotient, such that when ths remainder is O the index is displayed as a channel index9 when the remainder is 1 nothing is displayed and when the remainder is lt221 the index is displayed as the a channel index. According to a further preferred embodiment of the present invention, a receiving frequency received by a superheterodyne receiver is displayed in a digital manner.Conventionally, a tuning state to a receiving frpency was first established and then a digital indication of the receiving frequency was made by counting the oscillation frequency of the local oscillator. By contrast, according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the receiving frequency is displayed in a digital manner based on the data set in a receiving frequency associated data setting means. Therefore, according to the embodiment of the present invention, any pecife counter for counting the local oscillation frequency signal can be dispensed with, while complicated control therefor is neither required. Therefore, an object of the present invention is to provide a superheterodyne receiver including a voltage controlled ocillator as a local oscillator and receiving frequency associated data setting means for setting data associated with a receiving frequency for providing a control voltage to to voltage controlled oscillator, characterized by a novel channel display scheme for converting the data associated with a receiving frequency as set into channel number data for displaying a channel. Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing an outline of one embodiment of the present invention Fig. 2 is a block diagram showing in detail an operation means of the Fig. 1 embodiment Fig. 3 is a block diagram schematically showing a function of the operation means shown in Fig. 1 implemented by a microprocessor and Fig. 4 is a flow diagram for explaining an operation of the Fig. 3 embodiment. Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing one embodiment of the present invention. A high frequency signal received by an antenna 101 is amplified by a high frequency amplifier 103 and the output therefrom is applied to a mixer 105. The mixer 105 is connected to receive as a local oscillation signal the oscillation output obtained from a voltage controlled oscillator 125 included in a phase locked loop 115. Accordingly, in the mixer 105 the high frequency signal thus amplified is mixed with the local oscillation signal obtained from the voltage controlled oscillator to be converted into an intermediate frequency signal, which is then applied to an intermediate frequency amplifier 107. The output of the intermediate frequency amplifier 107 is detected by a detector 109 and a low frequency signal or an audio signal thus obtained is applied to a low frequency amplifier 111.The low frequency amplifier drives a speaker 113 in association with the audio signal applied thereto. An FM band radio receiver 100 is thus structured. The phase locked loop 115 comprises a reference oscillator 117. The reference oscillator 117 comprises a crystal, for example, the output of which is applied to a phase comparator 119. The phase comparator 119 is further connected to receive at the other input thereto the output of a programmable frequency divider 123 connected to receive the oscillation output of the voltage controlled oscillator 125. Accordingly, the phase comparator 119 serves to compare the phases of the signal obtained from the reference oscillator 117 and the signal obtained from the programmable frequency divider 123, thereby to provide a voltage signal associated with the phase difference therebetween, which is applied through a low pass filter 121 to the above described voltage controlled oscillator 125 as a control voltage.The programmable frequency divider 123 is loaded, as a frequency division ratio, with the data obtained from a frequency division ratio setting counter 311 included in a frequency division ratio setting means 300. The frequency division ratio setting means 300 is connected to an upward switch 201 for commanding an automatic scanning operation in the upward direction and a downward switch 203 for commanding an automatic scanning operation in the downward direction. The frequency division ratio data and thus the receiving frequency data obtained from the frequency division ratio setting means 300 is applied to a receiving frequency display 500 and also applied to an operation means 600. As to be more fully described subsequently, the operation means 600 is aimed to convert the receiving frequency data into channel number data and the output thereof is applied to a channel display 400. Such a frequency division ratio setting means is disclosed in United Stated Patent No.4,088,959, filed May 4, 1976 and issued May 9, 1978 to the same assignee as the present Invention and entitled MULTIPLE BAND DIGITAL FREQUENCY SYNTHESIZER REVEIVER .Accordingly, the frequency division ratio setting means 300 will be briefly described herein mainly centering on a portion of interest to the present invention. The upward switch 201 and the downward switch 203 are structured to provide a signal of the high lever or the logic one upon depression or operation thereof. The signal obtained from the upward switch 201 and the signal obtained from the downward switch 203 are applied to anOR gate 301 included in the control circuit 300 and is also applied to the set nput and the reset input of a flip flop 307, respectively. The output of the OR gate 301 is applied to the set input of a flip flop 303. The reset input of the flip flop 303 is connected to receive a signal representative of a tuning state by the above described radio receiver 100 obtained from ther intermediate frequency amplifier 107 thereof.Accordingly, the flip flop 303 is set responsive to operation of either the upward switch 201 or the downward switch 203 and is reset responsive to the signal representative of a tuning state by the radio receiver 100. The non inverted output of the flip flop 303 is applied to one input of anAND gate 309. The other input of the AND gate 309. The other input of the AND gate 309 is connected to receive a pulse obtained from a pulse generator 305. The pulse generator 305 comprises an astable multivibrator, for example, and the output pulse thereof is applied to anAND gate 309. The pulse as obtained from the pulse generator 305 through the AND gate 309 serves as a station selecting pulse and is applied to a count input of the frequency division ratio setting counter 311. The frequency division ratio setting counter 311 is structured as an up down counter and, in order to command the same as an up count mode or a down count mode, the non inverted output of the above described flip flop 307 is applied to these counters 311, 312 and 315. More specifically, if and when the non inverted output of the flip flop 307 is the high lever or the logic one, these counter 311, operates in an up count mode and, if and when the noninverted output of the flip flop 307 is the low lever or the logic zero, the counter 311 operates in a down count mode.The frequency division ratio setting counter 311 is provided with an attached circuit, not shown. 1 he attached circuit is adapted such that when the count value in the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 is the data of the broadcasting frequency 87.5 MHz of the lowest channel, say Channel No. 2 of the frequency band and when the downward switch 202 is operated in such a situation, the count value in the counter 311 is replaced by the data ovthe broadcasting frequency 108.5MHz of the highest channel, say Channel No. 72 , of the frequency band.The attached circuit is further adapted such that, conversely to the above, when the count value of the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 is the data of the above described broadcasting frequency of 108.5 MHz and when the upward switch 201 is further operated, the count value in the counter 311 is replaced by the data of the above described broadcasting frequency of 87.5 MHz of the lowest channel. Accordingly, the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 is controlled such that a frequency varies between the frequency of 87.5 MHz of the lowest channel and the frequency of 108.5 MHz of the highest channel. The count value in the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 included in the frequency division ratio setting means 300 is loaded in the programmable frequency divider 123 included in the phase locked loop 115 as a frequency division ratio and is also applied to the receiving frequency display 500, so that the receiving frequency is. displayed by the.display 500 in a digital manner. Meanwhile, in case of a lower side superheterodyne receiver, the local oscillation frequency is lower than the receiving frequency by a frequency difference commensurate with the intermediate frequency and therefore the programmable frequency divider performs in actually a frequency dividing operation at thevalue of the receiving frequency associated data minus the intermediate frequency associated data.The count value of the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 is further applied to the operation means 600. The operation means 600 is structured as shown in figs. 2 and 3, for example. The output of an addition circuit 607 included in the operation means 600 is applied to a channel number display portion 403 of the channel display 400 and the output of a remainder determining circuit 611 is applied to an index display portion 401 of the channel display 400. Referring to Fig. 2, the operation means 600 will be described in detail. The operation means 600 comprises a substration circuit 601 for receiving the receiving frequency data obtained from the frequency division ratio setting means 300 and thus from the frequency division ratio setting counter 311. The substraction Circuit 601 is also connected to receive, at the other input thereof, the numerical value 875 obtained from a numerical value setting circuit 603. The numerical value 875 set in the numerical value setting circuit 603 is selected to correspond to the broadcasting frequency of 87.5 MHz of the lowest channel, i.e. Channel No. 2 which is receivable by the receiver.The subtraction circuit 601 substracts the above described numerical value 875 from the receiving frequency data f obtained from the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 and supplies the the difference thereof to a dicision circuit 605. The division circuit 605 serves to divide the difference data obtained from the substraction circuit 601 by 3 . The reason why the output of the substraction circuit 601 is divided by 3 by means of the division circuit 605 is that, as described previously, broadcasting frequencies of three independent channels have been allotted to each one channel number. The quotient data obtained by the division by means of the division circuit 605 is applied to one input of an addition circuit 607 is also applied to a remainder determining circuit 611.The addition circuit 607 is also connected to receive, at the other input thereof, the numerical value n2 obtained from the numerical value setting circuit 609. The reason why the numerical value 2 is set in the numerical value setting circuit 609 is that the numerical value corresponding to the broadcasting frequency 87.5 MHz ofChannel No. 2 was set as the lowest frequency data in the above described numerical value setting circuit 603.More specifically, since the receiver is adapted such thatChannel Nos 0 , 0, 0 , 1 , 1 and 1 , at the lower extremity of the FM band are rendered unreceivable, it is intended that two channels rendered unreceivable are added as far as channel number data is concerned. Accordingly, the output of the addition circuit 607 is obtained as the channel number data. On the other hand, the remainder determining circuit 611 determines whether a remainder occurs in the result of the division by the division circuit 605 and if a remainder has occurred, whether the remainder is 1 or 2 .The remainder determining circuit 611 provides a signal representing that the channel indes is when the remainder is O and a signal representing that the channel index is when the remainder is 2 . Now that the structural features of the embodiment were described in the foregoing, an operation of the embodiment will be described in the following. Now consider that in an initial condition the count value in the counter 311 included in the frequency division ratio setting means 300 is the data 875 corresponding to the frequency of 87.5 MHz. Therefore, in such initial condition, the receiving frequency data 1187511 is loaded in the programmable frequency divider 123 included in the phase locked loop 115 as a frequency division ratio. At the same time, a decimal point display portion, not shown, is enabled in the frequency display 500. As a result, the frequency data of 87.5 MHz is displayed in a digital manner by the frequency display 500.On the other hand, the operation means 600 makes substration by the . subtraction circuit 601 with respect to the frequency data 875 obtained from the counter 311 and the numerical value 875 obtained from the numerical value setting circuit 603. Accordingly, in the initial condition, the difference output of the subtraction circuit 601 is O . Therefore, the quotient output of the division circuit 605 is O . Thus, the output of the addition circuit 607 becomes 2 . On the other hand, since the quotient is uO , the remainder determining circuit 611 also determines the remainder as O , thereby to provide a signal representing the channel index as . Acorrdingly, the channel number 2 is displayed by the channel number display portion 403 and the channel index 401 is displayed by the channel index display portion 401 in the channel display 400. Now consider a case where the upward switch 201 is operated in the above described initial condition. Upon manual operation of the upward switch 201, the flip flop 307 is set responsive to the signal obtained from the upward switch 201 and the flip flop 303 is set responsive the the signal obtained from the upward switch 201 through the OR gate 301. As the flip flop 307 is set, the noninverted output thereof becomes the high lever or the logic one, whereby the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 is rendered in an up count mode. Since at the same time the non inverted output of the flip flop 303 becomes the high level or the logic one, the pulse obtained from the pulse generator 305 is applied through the AND gate 309 to the count input of the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 as a station selecting pulse.When the first station selecting pulse is received, the counter 311 counts 876 . Therefore, the receiving frequency data 876 is loaded in the programmable frequency divider 123 included in the phase locked loop 115 as a frequency division ratio. At the same time, a decimal point display portion, not shown, is enabled in the frequency display 500. As a result, the frequency data of 87.6 MHz is displayed in a digital manner by the frequency display 500. On the other hand, the operation means 600 makes subtraction by the subtraction circuit 601 with respect to the frequency data 876 obtained from the counter 311 and the numerical value 875 obtained from the numerical value setting circuit 603.Accordingly, the difference output of the subtraction circuit 601 is 1 . Therefore, the quotient output of the division circuit 605 is O . On the other hand, the remainder determining circuit 611 also determines the remainder as 1 , thereby to provide a signal representing the channel index being neither . nor . Accordingly, the channel number 2 is displayed by the channel number display portion 403 and the channel index display portion 401 in the channel display 400 is not enabled. Thereafter the second pulse is applied from the pulse generator 305 through the AND gate 309 to the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 as a station selecting pulse. Then the counter 311 counts the same and the count value in the counter 311 becomes 877 . Therefore the receiving frequency data 877 is loaded in the programmable frequency divider 123 included in the phase locked loop 115 as a frequency division ratio. At the same time, a decimal point display portion, not shown, is enabled in the frequency display 500. As a result, the frequency data of 87.7 MHz is displayed in a digital manner by the frequency display 500.On the other hand, the operation means 600 makes subtraction by the subtraction circuit 601 with respect to the frequency data 877 obtained from the counter 311 and the numerical value 875 obtained from the numerical value setting circuit 603. Accordingly, the difference output of the subtraction circuit 601 is 2 . On the other hand, the remainder determining circuit 611 also determines the remainder as 2 , thereby to provide a signal representing the channel index as . Accordingly, the channel number 2 is displayed by the channel number display portion 403 and the channel index 401 is displayed by the channel index display portion 401 in the channel display 400. Then the third station selecting pulse is applied from the station selecting pulse generator 305 to the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 and the counter 311 becomes 878 . Therefore, the receiving frequency data 878 is loaded in the programmable frequency divider 123 included in the phase locked loop 115 as a frequency division ratio. At the same time, a decimal point display portion, not shown, is enabled in the frequency display 500. As a result the frequency data of 878 MHz is displayed in a digital manner by the frequency display 500. On the other hand, the operation means 600 makes subtraction by the subtraction circuit 601 with respect to the frequency data 878 obtained from the counter 311 and the numerical value 87.5 obtained from the numerical value setting circuit 603.Accordingly, the difference output of the subtraction circuit 601 is 3 . Therefore, the quotient output of the division circuit 605 is 1 . Thus, the output of the addition circuit 607 becomes 3 . On the other hand, the remainder determining circuit 611 also determines the remainder as O , thereby to provide a signal representing the channel index as . Accordingly, the channel number 3 is displayed by the channel number display portion 403 and the channel index 401 is displayed by the channel index display portion 401 in the channel display 400. Thereafter, in a similar manner, each time a station selecting pulse is obtained from the pulse generator 305, the data displayed by the frequency display 500 and the channel display 400 is renewed. Now description is made of a case where the downward switch 203 is temporarily operated in the initial condition, i .e. when the count value in the frequency division setting counter 311 is 875 . In such a case, as in case of operation of the upward switch 201, the flipflop 303 is set. On the other hadn, the flip flop 307 is reset, so that the non inverted output becomes the low lever or the logic zero. Accordingly, the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 is brought to the down count mode. The pulse obtained from the pulse generator 305 is applied through the AND gate 309 to the counter 311.However, the count value in the counter 311 is 875 and the attached circuit, not shown, determines the state, thereby to change the count value in the frequency division ratio setting counter11 to 1085 . Accordingly, in such a case, the counter 311 makes a down count operation responsive to each station selecting pulse, starting from 1085 . Fig. 3 i3 a block diagram schematically showIng te function of the operation means 600 in Fig. 1 in case where the same is implemented by a well known microprocessor or microcomputer. Referring to Fig. 3, a read only memory 625 has been loaded with three pieces of data 875 ., 3 and 2 in the respective prescribed addresses. The read only memory 625 is addressed by means of a control circuit 633 through cooperation with other gase circuits G1 to G6 and an operation circuit 627, such that a read operation is controlled. The control circuit 633 also provides an addressing signal in order to address a program memory 635, which may also comprise a read only memory.Accordingly, the addressing signal is loaded in an address register 637 and the program memory 635 is addressed thereby. The program memory 635 provides a command signal to the control circuit 633 in association with the address as addressed. Accordingly, the control circuit 633 supplies a command signal of subtraction addition or division to the operation control circuit 627 in accordance with the program stored in the program memory 635 and suitably controls opening and closing of the gate circuits G1 to G6. Registers 621, 623, and 629 shown in Fig. 3 are implemented by a portion of a random access memory, not shown. Fig. 4 is a flow diagram for exaplaning an operation of the Fig. 3 embodiment. Now referring to Fig. 4, an operation of the Fig. 3 embodiment will be described in the following. In operation, let it be assumed that the numerical value 899 has been loaded in the frequency division ratio setting counter 311 included in the frequency division setting means 300, by way of an example.Accordingly, the radio receiver 100 is receiving the broadcasting frequency of 89.9 MHz. In such a situation, the control circuit 533 operates to load the data µt899 obtained from the frequency division ratio setting means 300 to the first register 621 Then the control circus 633 addresses the read only memory 625, so that the numerical value 18753 is read from the read only memory 625, which is then loaded in the second register 623. Then the control circuit 633 provides gate signals G1 and G2, so that the gate circuits G1 and G2 are opened.Accordingly the operation circuits 627 receives the numerical value 1189911 loaded in the first register 621 and the numerical value 875 loaded in the second register 623. In such a situation, the operation circuit 627 has been supplied with the subtraction command signal from the control circuit 633. Accordingly, the operation circuit 627 makes an subtracting operation of 899 875 . Thereafter the control circuit 633 provides a gate signal G3, so that the corresponding gate G3 is opened. Accordingly, the difference 24 t obtained by the opera tion by means of the operation circuit 627 is again loaded in the first register 621. Then the control circuit 633 addresses the read only memory 625, so that the numerical value 3 is obtained from the read only memory 625. The above described numerical value 3 is loeaded in the second register 623.The control circuit 633 again provides the gate Signals G1 and G2, so that the gate circuits G1 and G2 are opened.Accordingly, the operation circuit 627 receives the numerical values 24 and 3 . At the same time, the operation circuit 627 has been supplied with a division command from the control circuit 633. Therefore, the operation circuit 627 performs a dividing operation of 24 3 . The control circuit 633 again provides the gate signal G3. Accordingly, the quotient 8 obtained by the operation by means of the operation circuit 627 is again loaded in the first register 621. At that time the control circuit 633 provides the gate signal G5. Accordingly, the remainder obtained as a result of division by means of the operation circuit 627 is applied to the remainder determining circuit 631.At that time, the remainder determining circuit 631 determines the remainder being O and the channel index 401 of the channel index display 401 is enabled. On the other hand, the control circuit 633 then addresses the read only memory 625, sothat the numerical value 2 is read therefrom. The above described numerical value 2 is loaded in the second register 623. Then the control circuit 633 provides the gate signals G1 and G2.Accordingly, the operation circuit 627 receives the numerical values 8 and 2 . At the same time, the operation circuit 627 is supplied with an addition signal obtained from the control circuit 633. Accordingly, the operation circuit 627 performs an adding operation of 8 2 . Thereafter, the control circuit 633 provides the gate signals G4 and G6. Accordingly, the sum 10 obtained as a result of addition by the operation circuit 627 is transferred to the third register 629 and is applied to the channel number display portion 403 as channel number data. Thus it is indicated that the broadcasting frequency presently in reception is 89.9M iz and the Channel No. 10 . Thereafter, as described previously, each time a station selecting pulse is received from the AND gate 309, for example, the counter 311 included in the frequency division ration setting means 300 makes an up coar.t or down count and accordingly the frequency a1vs1on ato data is loaded in the frequency division ratio setting counter 311. Thus the operation means 600 can serve to display the channel in terms of the channel number and the channel Index on the basis of the operation described previously, i.e. the operation as shown in Fig. 4.More specifically, each time a station selecting pulse is received, the frequency division ratio setting data is changed by 1 , so that the oscillation frequency of the voltage controlled oscillator 125 is also changed by 100 kHz. Thus, the channel index is changed for every 100 hKz, while the channel number data is changed for every 300 kHz. The above described embodiment was adapted such that the numerical value 875 corresponding to the broadcasting frequency of the lowest channel, i.e. ChannelNo. 2 which is receivable by the receiver was set as data corresponding to the broadcasting frequency of the lowest channel. However, alternatively, the data 869 corresponding to the broadcasting frequency of the lowest channel, i.e. Channel No. 0 allotted to the frequency band may be set. In such a case. it is not required that the quotient obtained as a result of division is divided by 3 and then the value 2 is added thereto. In such a case, it is required that the counter 311 of the frequency division ratio setting means 300 is changeable up tojthe data 869 corresponding to the lowest broadcasting frequency. Although the present invention has been described and illustrated in detail, it is to be clearly understood that the same is by way of illustration and example only and is not to be taken by way of limitation,the spirit and scope of this invention being limited only by the terms of the appended claims.