# A shock absorbing means for packing.

## Abstract
A shock absorbing means for packing which comprises a plurality of housings 1 of enlarged, quadrangular shape and defined by transverse lines of welding 5,6 between two laminar flexible strips of synthetic material, connected by pairs of parallel welding lines and united along the borders and whereby the housings are filled with elements 2 made of an essentially porous and absorbing material and arranged arbitrarily.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A shock absorbing means for packing, characterized in that it comprises a plurality of housings pockets 1 of enlarged, quadrangular shape and defined by transverse lines 5,6 of welding between two laminar flexible strips of synthetic material, connected by pairs of parallel welding lines and united along the borders, and in that the housings are filled with elements 2 made of an essentially porous and absorbing material and arranged arbitrarily. 2. The shock absorbing means as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the elements 2 of absorbing material have the form of curved sheets, preferably being of elliptical shape, and in that the faces thereof form cells in connection with the pores of the internal structure of increased surface area as compared to the volume.

## Description
A shock absorbing means for packing The invention relates to means designed to facilitate protection of fragile objects against shocks, vibrations, and other causes which might impair the integrity of the objects.The shock absorbing means to be described in greater detail below is characterized by its simple structure, modest production cost, and efficiency in use as it provides for complete isolation from the effects of shocks, vibrations, and the like to which fragile objects normally are exposed during transportation and temporary storage.In order that the invention may be clearly understood and readily carried into effect an embodiment of a shock absorbing means for packing will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a side elevational partial view of a means accord ing to the invention Fig. 2 is a longitudinal sectional view along line Il Il in fig. 1, as seen from the front Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the means according to the invention, embodied by four identical portions Fig. 4 is a view of a fragile object packed by the embodi ment of the means according to the invention shown Fig. 5 is a presentation at right angles of one of the ele ments of shock absorbing material of which the means according to the invention is composed in its inter ior.The body of the shock absorbing means according to the invention forms a pocket 1 of rectangular shape, as seen from the side, and approximately oval in transverse section. It is filled with a plurality of elements 2 of variable shape which, in their preferred embodiment, have the configuration of an elliptical and curved piece, as illustrated in fig. 5.The faces 3 and 4 defining the pocket 1 are limited by lines 5 and 6 of welding or fusing which extend in transverse direction across two strips or webs of laminar plastic material, thereby defining narrow zones 7 between each pair of adjacent pockets 1.The shock absorbing means specifically comprises an elongated band formed of a plurality of pockets 1, as shown in fig.3, to be arranged in such manner that it will wrap an object 8 of fragile structure, either fully or in part, protecting it against shocks, vibrations, or other causes of damage which might affect the object during its transportation. In fig. 4 the shock absorbing means is shown applied to position an object 8 in the interior of a box 9, the shock absorbing means acting as a wrapping in contact with the various surfaces of the object to be protected. The elements 2 are manufactured separately by suitable me thods and preferably of a porous and absorbing raw material, like expanded polystyrene, or any other material which is light in weight and capable of mechanical, thermal, and acoustic absorption.The dimensions of the pockets 1 may vary in correspondence with the envisaged dampening or shock absorbing action and the size of the objects to be protected. They are made in industrial lengths and cut to measure, as desired.