# Recovering granular poly arylene sulfide particles from a poly arylene sulfide reaction mixture

## Claims
Verfahren zur Gewinnung von körnigem poly arylensulfid aus einem ein polares organisches Lösemittel, Poly arylensulfid und Alkalimetallhalogenid Nebenprodukt enthaltendem Polymerisations Reaktionsgemisch, wobei sich das Reaktionsgemisch bei einer Temperatur oberhalb derjenigen befindet, bei der Poly arylensulfid in geschmolzener Phase vorliegt, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß man das Polymerisations Reaktionsgemisch mit einer Menge eines Trennungsmittels in Kontakt bringt, welches in dem polaren Lösemittel löslich ist, jedoch selbst kein Lösemittel für das Poly arylensulfid darstellt, um eine Phasentrennung des geschmolzenen Poly arylensulfids von dem polaren organischen Lösemittel zu erreichen, und daß man anschließend die Temperatur der getrennten Phasen erniedrigt, um eine teilchenförmiges Poly arylensulfid in polarem organischen Lösemittel enthaltende Aufschlämmung zu erzeugen.

## Description
This invention relates to processes for the production of polymers from aromatic compounds. In one of its aspects, this invention relates to processes for the production of arylene sulfide polymers. In another of its aspects, this invention relates to the separation of solid and liquid components of the reaction mixture of the reaction of polyhalo substituted aromatic compounds in polar organic solvent to provide polylarylene sulfide . In still another of its aspects, this invention relates to the recovery of relatively large particulate poly arylene sulfide from its reaction mixture. In still another aspect of the invention, it relates to the recovery of particulate poly arylene sulfide by separation from the other components of its reaction mixture. In one concept of this invention it provides a method for separating the reaction mixture of the reaction of polyhalo substituted aromatic compounds and polar organic solvent which has produced poly arylene sulfide into a particulate poly arylene sulfide that is recovered from the reaction mixture and other components that can be separated for recovery or disposal. A basic process for the production of arylene sulfide polymers from polyhalo substituted cyclic compounds containing unsaturation between adjacent ring atoms, wherein the halogen atoms attached to ring carbon atoms react with an alkali metal sulfide in a polar organic compound at an elevated temperature is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,354,129. Since the disclosure of that invention a great amount of experimental work has been completed which resulted in the disclosure of methods for both batch and continous operations to produce poly arylene sulfides not only from p dihalobenzenes but also containing polyhalo aromatic compounds having more than two halogen substituents per molecule and with the addition of various polymerization modifying compounds such as alkali metal carboxylates. Processes have also been disclosed in which various reactants can be premixed to form reaction complexes before all of the reactants are brought together at polymerization conditions. All of these processes have in common the production at a temperature above that at which poly arylene sulfide is in molten phase, of a reaction mixture containing poly arylene sulfide and a polar organic solvent along with various impurities and unreacted reactants from which solid poly arylene sulfide is recovered. In the past a solvent flashing process has generally been used to recover a powdery resin from the reaction mixture. This powdery resin has proved to be difficult to filter from the arylene sulfide oligomers that are byproducts of the polymerization, has resulted in a product that when dried is excessively dusty, has necessitated pelletizing the powder for extrusion purposes, and has resulted in other problems commonly associated with products of relatively low bulk density. Increasing the size of the particulate poly arylene sulfide produced from the processes described above would result in alleviating these problems. The present invention provides a process by which arylene sulfide polymers having relatively larger, coarser particles can be recovered from reaction mixtures containing poly arylene sulfide and polar organic solvent. It is therefore an object of this invention to provide a method for recovering relatively large, granular poly arylene sulfide particles from a reaction mixture containing poly arylene sulfide and polar organic solvent. It is another object of this invention to provide a method for recovering poly arylene sulfide having a particle size distribution resulting in improved filterability and reduced dustiness as compared to the resin recovered by solvent flashing methods. It is still another object of the invention to provide a method for recovering poly arylene sulfide having a particle size distribution that will eliminate the need for pelletizing the recovered particles prior to extrusion. It is still another object of the invention to produce poly arylene sulfide having a generally higher bulk density than is produced by solvent flashing methods of recovering the polymer from its reaction mixture. It is still another object of this invention to provide a method for recovery of poly arylene sulfide which facilitates separation of arylene sulfide oligomers from the reaction mixture. It is another object of this invention to produce useful manufactured articles from poly arylene sulfide recovered by the method of this invention. Other aspects, concepts, and objects of this invention will become apparent to those reading this disclosure and studying the appended drawings and claims. In accordance with this invention a method is provided for recovering granular poly arylene sulfide from a polymerization reaction mixture, at a temperature above that at which poly arylene sulfide is in molten phase, comprising polar organic solvent, alkali metal halide by product and poly arylene sulfide as defined in the claims. The invention can be stated as a method for recovering granular poly arylene sulfide from a polymerization reaction mixture, at a temperature above that at which poly arylene sulfide is in molten phase, containing polar organic solvent, alkali metal halide by product and poly arylene sulfide in which the polymerization reaction mixture is contacted with an amount of a liquid soluble in the polar organic solvent but not itself a solvent for poly arylene sulfide , preferably water, sufficient to cause phase separation of molten poly arylene sulfide from polar organic solvent with subsequent reduction of the temperature of the separated phases to a degree sufficient to produce a slurry of particulate poly arylene sulfide in polar organic solvent. In accordance with further embodiments of the invention the reaction mixture, after the production of the slurry of particulate poly arylene sulfide in polar organic solvent, is subjected to further treatments to separate and recover arylene sulfide polymer particles and to separate and recover or dispose of the other components of the reaction mixture. The process of the present invention is suitable for use in recovering poly arylene sulfide produced by any method that results in a reaction mixture containing a molten poly arylene sulfide , polar organic solvent, various impurities, and unreacted reactants. The most common of impurities will be by product alkali metal halide principally sodium chloride NaCl and poly arylene sulfide oligomers which are gelatinous materials commonly described as slime because of their physical properties. Processes that will produce such a reaction mixture are set forth in U.S. Patent 3,354,129 and its derivatives in which polyhalo substituted aromatic compounds are reacted with sulfur containing reactants in a polar organic solvent, optionally with polymerization modifying compounds, either in batch or continuous operations. Reaction mixtures that can be treated by the process of this invention also include those in which components of the reaction mixture are premixed to form complexes before all of the components are brought together under polymerization conditions. Although other components are not excluded from the reaction mixture, in general, arylene sulfide polymers treated by the process of this invention are phenylene sulfide polymers produced by the contacting of at least one p dihalobenzene, under polymerization conditions for a period of time sufficient to form a phenylene sulfide polymer, with a mixture in which at least one alkali metal sulfide or other sulfur sources and a polar organic solvent, often with the addition of such optional components as a minor amount of a polyhalo aromatic compound having more than two halogen substituents per molecule, and or a polymerization modifying compound such as an alkali metal carboxylate or a lithium halide. Some of the more common components of these reaction mixtures are listed below Examples of some p dihalobenzenes which can be employed in the process of this invention include p dichlorobenzene, p dibromobenzene, p diiodobenzene, 1 chloro 4 bromobenzene, 1 chloro 4 iodobenzene, 1 bromo 4 iodobenzene, 2,5 dichlorotoluene, 2,5 dichloro p xylene, 1 ethyl 4 isopropyl 2,5 dibromobenzene, 1,2,4,5 tetramethyl 3,6 dichlorobenzene, 1 butyl 4 cyclohexyl 2,5 dibromobenzene, 1 hexyl 3 dodecyl 2,5 dichlorobenzene, 1 octadecyl 2,5 diiodobenzene, 1 phenyl 2 chloro 5 bromobenzene, 1 p tolyl 2,5 dibromobenzene, 1 benzyl 2,5 dichlorobenzene, 1 octyl 4 3 methylcyclopentyl 2,5 dichlorobenzene, and the like and mixtures thereof. Polyhalo aromatic compounds having more than two halogen substituents per molecule which can be employed in the process of this invention can be represented by the formula R X Examples of some polyhalo aromatic compounds having more than two halogen substituents per molecule which can be employed in the process of this invention include 1,2,3 trichlorobenzene, 1,2,4 trichlorobenzene, 1,3 dichioro 5 bromobenzene, 2,4,6 trichlorotoluene, 1,2,3,5 tetrabromobenzene, hexachlorobenzene, 1,3,5 trichloro 2,4,6 trimethylbenzene, 2,2 ,4,4 tetrachlorobiphenyl, 2,2 ,6,6 tetrabromo 3,3 ,5,5 tetramethylbiphenyl, 1,2,3,4 tetrachloronapbthalene, 1,2,4 tribromo 6 methylnaphthalene, and the like, and mixtures thereof. Alkali metal sulfides which can be employed in the process of this invention include lithium sulfide, sodium sulfide, potassium sulfide, rubidium sulfide, cesium sulfide, and mixtures thereof. Preferably, the alkali metal sulfide is used as a hydrate or as an aqueous mixture. If desired, the alkali metal sulfide can be prepared as an aqueous solution by the reaction of an alkali metal hydroxide with an alkali metal bisulfide in aqueous solution. Alkali metal carboxylates which can be employed in the process of this invention can be represented by the formula R CO₂M, where R is a hydrocarbyl radical selected from alkyl, cycloalkyl, and aryl, and combinations thereof such as alkaryl, aralkyl, and the like, the number of carbon atoms in said R being within the range of 1 to about 20, and M is an alkali metal selected from lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium and cesium. If desired, the alkali metal carboxylate can be employed as a hydrate or as a solution or dispersion in water. Examples of some alkali metal carboxylates which can be employed in the process of this invention include lithium acetate, sodium acetate, potassium acetate, lithium propionate, sodium propionate, lithium 2 methylpropionate, rubidium butyrate, lithium valerate, sodium valerate, cesium hexanoate, lithium heptanoate, lithium 2 methyloctanoate, potassium dodecanoate, rubidium 4 ethyltetradecanoate, sodium octanoate, sodium heneicosanoate, lithium cyclohexanecarboxylate, sodium 3 methylcyclopentanecarboxylate, potassium cyclohexylacetate, potassium benzoate, lithium benzoate, sodium benzoate, potassium m toluate, lithium phenylacetate, sodium 4 phenylcyclohexanecarboxylate, potassium p tolyacetate, lithium 4 ethylcyclohexylacetate, and the like, and mixtures thereof. The amount of alkali metal carboxylate generally used as a polymerization modifier in the polymerization reaction usually .05 to 4, preferably .1 to 2 gram moles carboxylate gram mole of p dihalobenzene will serve to reduce the amount of separating agent needed in this invention. Lithium halides which can be employed in the process of this invention include lithium chloride, lithium bromide, lithium iodide, and mixtures thereof. Alkali metal hydroxides which can be employed in the process of this invention include lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, rubidium hydroxide, cesium hydroxide, and mixtures thereof. The polar organic solvents useful in the present invention are solvents for the polyhalo aromatic compounds and the alkali metal sulfides used in the production of arylene sulfide polymers. Examples of such polar organic solvents include amides, including lactams, and sulfones. Specific examples of such polar organic solvents include hexamethylphosphoramide, tetramethylurea, N,N ethylenedipyrrolidone, N methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP , pyrrolidone, caprolactam, N ethylcaprolactam, sulfolane, N,N dimethylacetamide, low molecular weight polyamides, and the like. The polar organic solvent presently preferred is N methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP . Water is the preferred agent for causing separation of molten poly arylene sulfide from the polar organic solvent however, any liquid can be used 1 that is soluble in the polar organic solvent used in the reaction mixture 2 that is not itself a solvent for poly arylene sulfide and 3 that has boiling characteristics suitable for the reaction and recovery conditions of this process. In general, paraffinic hydrocarbons, higher boiling alcohols, and higher boiling ethers are suitable compounds for use alone or in mixture. Although the reaction temperature at which the polymerization is conducted can vary over a wide range, generally it will be within the range of 215 C 420 F to 316 C 600 F , preferably 224 C 435 F to 282 C 540 F . The reaction time can vary widely, depending in part on the reaction temperature, but generally will be within the range of 10 minutes to 72 hours, preferably 1 hour to 8 hours. The pressure should be sufficient to maintain the N methyl 2 pyrrolidone, the p dihalobenzene, and the polyhalo aromatic compound having more than two halogen substituents per molecule, if used, substantially in the liquid phase. Polymerization of various components set out above can with other components well known in the art result in a reaction mixture at a temperature above that at which poly arylene sulfide is in molten phase comprising poly arylene sulfide , polar organic diluent, arylene sulfide oligomers slime , sodium chloride, and unreacted reactants as the major components of the reaction mixture. For commercial purposes, currently most usually, the poly arylene sulfide would be poly phenylene sulfide PPS and the polar organic solvent would be N methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP . The present invention provides a method for converting the poly arylene sulfide in the reaction mixture into relatively large, coarse particulate poly arylene sulfide that is readily separable from the other components of the reaction mixture. In those reaction mixtures that are anhydrous or that contain relatively little separation agent, usually water, it has been found that the addition of separation agent, preferably deionized water, will cause a phase separation between the molten poly arylene sulfide and the polar organic solvent. In the preparation of poly arylene sulfide using alkali metal carboxylate the addition of separation agent, preferably deionized water, to the reaction mixture can enhance the separation. When alkali metal carboxylate is not present it has been found that the presence of .01 to .5 kg of separation agent kg of solvent, preferably .05 to .2 kg of separation agent kg of solvent, in the reaction mixture is sufficient to cause the phase separation desired. When alkali metal carboxylate is present, generally a lesser amount of separation agent is necessary to cause phase separation. Preferably, .05 to 0.15 kg of separation agent kg of solvent is then required. After the phase separation has been accomplished the temperature of the separated phases is lowered from the range in which the poly arylene sulfide is molten into the range in which it solidifies. In general, PPS mixtures have a transition temperature of 218 C 6C 425 F 10F depending on impurities. Described in another way, the temperature of the molten poly arylene sulfide is then decreased from the range of 260 C 500 F to 316 C 600 F to a temperature below 177 C 350 F , i.e. within the range of 140 C 300 F to 177 C 350 F . The lowering of the temperature after the phase separation of the molten poly arylene sulfide causes the arylene sulfide polymer to form into relatively large, coarse particles of .04 to 4 mm, preferably .1 to 2 mm size range in contrast to the fine powder produced by prior methods of recovery of the polyer. By the present method a slurry of particulate poly arylene sulfide in polar organic solvent is produced which can then be separated and refined by conventional means. To illustrate the operation of the present invention a preferred operation in a continuous process will be described below in conjunction with the drawing which is a schematic representation of a process for producing poly phenylene sulfide PPS , for recovering PPS resin by the process for this invention, and for recovering N methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP solvent. The elements of the recovery system are known to be separately operable, but all of the elements have not been actually operated in the integrated process described. This illustration has been chosen as a relatively sophisticated continuous production and recovery operation which embodies relatively simpler operations for producing the reaction mixture by batch processes. Referring now to the drawing, aqueous solutions of NaOH and NaSH are fed into stirred vessel 1 through lines 3 and 5 respectively for neutralization to yield primarily a dissolved Na₂S. NMP is fed through line 7 into the stirred vessel 1 to flush all of the material from vessel 1 through line 9 into stirred vessel 11 which serves as the dehydration and polymerization reactor. All of the lines from the stirred vessel 1 are then flushed with nitrogen gas and then vented through reaction vessel 11. NMP charged through lines 13 and 15, and sodium acetate charged through lines 17 and 15 are introduced into the dehydration polymerization vessel 11 to provide a mixture of water, NMP, sodium sulfide and sodium acetate in this vessel. Optionally, the sodium acetate can be replaced by charging NaOH and acetic acid into the dehydration polymerization vessel 11 so that the sodium acetate is prepared in situ. The mixture of water, NMP, sodium sulfide and sodium acetate is heated by means of heat transfer coils 19 containing hot oil. Rising vapors passing through line 21 are fractionated in the distillation column 23, and condensed water vapor is passed through line 25 to be collected in dehydration accumulator 27. After the dehydration process, the dehydration column 23 is isolated from dehydration polymerization vessel 11 and p dichlorobenzene DCB is added to Vessel 11 through lines 29 and 15 and, optionally, 1,2,4 trichlorobenzene TCB is added to reactor 11 through lines 31 and 15. The mixture is heated under polymerization conditions to form a reaction mixture containing a molten PPS resin, unreacted reactants, phenylene sulfide oligomers slime , sodium chloride, NMP and water. Since sodium acetate and water are present in the reaction mixture a small amount of deionized water can be charged to the polymerization vessel 11 on completion of the polymerization to facilitate the separation of the molten PPS phase from the second liquid phase comprising NMP, phenylene sulfide oligomers, sodium chloride and the unreacted reactants. During the phase separation the reaction mixture is vigorously stirred by agitator 33 and the temperature of the reactor is reduced so that after the separation the liquid PPS phase gradually solidifies as its temperature drops below the transition temperature. There is produced a slurry of coarse particulate PPS in the reaction mixture. This mixture was then transferred through line 35 into a stirred dilution tank 37. Water is added through line 39 in a sufficient quantity to dissolve the major portion of soluble salts. Steam is introduced through line 41 at the bottom of the tank 37 mainly for the purpose of driving off unreacted DCB as vapor through line 43. Steam and DCB are condensed in heat exchanger 45 and collected in receiver 47 from which they can be fed to a fractionator not shown for DCB and water recovery. The effluent from dilution tank 37 is charged through line 49, pump 51 and line 53 to stirred slurry tank 55. Here, further de ashing i.e. dissolving of salt and other impurities , is carried out. The de ashed slurry is transferred through line 57, pump 59 and line 61 to porous metal screen 63 where solids are collected as a filter cake and the filtrate is passed through line 65 to a vacuum drum filter 67 precoated with a suitable filter aid such as diatomaceous earth or cellulose fibers. Dispersed slime is retained on the filter coating, which is scraped off at certain time intervals and replaced by a fresh coating. Scraped off filter aid slime waste material is passed through line 69 to be discarded. This facilitated ability to separate slime from the particulate polymer is a material advance in the art. Clarified filtrate comprising mainly water, sodium chloride and NMP is charged through line 71 to the upper portion of an extraction column 73, which is equipped with a suitable packing material conventional perforated trays could also be used . An extractant, preferably n hexanol, is added through line 75 into the lower portion of extraction column 73. Extractant flows upward to extract NMP from the brine feed which flows downward in the column. Optionally, the brine can be concentrated by partial evaporation of water before it is fed into the extraction column to enhance the extraction efficiency based on the well known salting out effect. Distilled or deionized water from line 77 is injected into the extraction column 73 at a point above the brine feed entry to wash the extract comprising n hexanol and NMP and to remove traces of sodium chloride. The bottom raffinate comprising water and dissolved salt is passed through line 79 for disposal in a suitable manner, e.g., in a brine well. The top extract comprising n hexanol and NMP is passed through line 81 to fractionators not shown for recovery of both organic solvents which are then recycled. The filter cake from porous metal screen 63 is passed through line 83 along with deionized water from line 85 to be slurried in wash tank 87 which is an agitated tank providing contact between the slurry and the wash water further to de ash the PPS particles. Effluent from tank 87 is passed through line 89, pump 91 and line 93 to a second porous metal screen 95 for separation of filtrate and filter cake. The filter cake from porous metal screen 95 is passed through line 97 to wash tank 99 which is another agitated vessel for reslurrying and further de ashing. Effluent from wash tank 99 is passed through line 101, pump 103 and line 105 to a third porous metal screen 107 on which the PPS is washed with water from line 109 and transferred to line 111 as recovered PPS which is then dried and, optionally, air cured. The filtrate from porous metal screens 95 and 107 are passed through transfer lines 113 and 115 respectively to be apportioned to wash tanks 87 and 99 or to be stored in filtrate holding tank 117. The filtrate in holding tank 117 is passed through line 119, pump 121 and line 39, to the stirred dilution tank 37. The following are examples illustrating the process of the present invention. In this example the preparation of poly phenylene sulfide PPS from an aqueous mixture of sodium sulfide, N methylpyrrolidone NMP and p dichlorobenzene DCB and its recovery by conventional solvent flashing is described. The PPS resin prepared by this solvent flash recovery method will be used in a later example as a control polymer for comparative purpose. An aqueous sodium sulfide solution was prepared by mixing 34.7 kg 76.5 lb of a 50.35 weight percent NaOH solution with 44 kg 96.9 Ib of a solution containing 58.62 weight percent of NaHS and 0.29 weight percent of Na₂S. This solution plus 128.5 l 34 gallons of NMP were added to an agitated pilot plant reactor, which was then purged with nitrogen. This mixture was first heated for 15 minutes at an essentially constant temperature of about 166 C 330 F under a pressure of 117 kPa 17 psig and then dehydrated by raising the temperature to a final temperature of 232 C 449 F during a time period of 2 hours. Subsequently 67.2 kg 148.1 lb of DCB were charged to the reactor, and the entire reactor mixture was heated for 2 hours at a temperature ranging from 222 C 431 F initial to 232 C 450 F , at a pressure ranging from 186 kPa 27 psig initial to 565 kPa 82 psig . The reactor temperature was then raised to about 265 C 509 F and the pressure increased to about 1.24 MPa 180 psig during a time interval of 35 minutes. Continued heating of the reactor mixture was carried out at about 265 C 509 F and a pressure of 1.24 to 1.34 MPa 180 195 psig for 90 minutes. The polymerization mixture was concentrated by partial solvent flashing at about 265 C 509 F while the pressure was reduced from 1.31 MPa 190 psig to 317 kPa 46 psig during a time interval of 100 minutes. Finally the partially desolventized slurry was further heated to about 282 C 540 F , pressured to 1.03 MPa 150 psig with nitrogen, and flashed in a blender heated to 243 C 470 F for 50 minutes. The dry salt filled PPS was first washed with 454 l 120 gallons of deionized water at ambient temperature and then twice with 302 l 80 gallons each of hot deionized water at 177 C 1.03 MPa 350 F 150 psig . The filter cake was then dried at 93 C 149 C 200 300 F and atmospheric pressure for about 3 hours. This example describes the recovery of PPS by the novel process of this invention comprising the steps of adding water to the hot completed polymerization mixture, cooling the polymerization mixture while being agitated, diluting this mixture with water, and filtering it for PPS recovery. An aqueous sodium sulfide solution was prepared by neutralizing 35.4 kg 78.0 lb of a 50.35 weight percent NaOH solution with 44 kg 96.9 lb of a solution containing 58.62 weight percent of NaHS and 0.29 weight percent of Na₂S. This solution plus 128 l 34.0 gallons of NMP were added to a stirred 400 r.p.m. pilot plant reactor, which was then purged with nitrogen. This mixture was dehydrated according to the procedure described in Example I. 66.5 kg 146.4 lb of DCB were charged to the reactor, which was then heated for 2 hours at a temperature of 223 232 C 434 450 F and a pressure ranging from 248 kPa 36 psig initial to 517 kPa 75 psig . The reactor temperature was raised to about 266 C 510 F , while the pressure rose to about 1.21 MPa 175 psig . Finally, the polymerization was completed by heating for 3 hours at 266 C 510 F and a pressure of 1.21 1.34 MPa 175 195 psig . In order to accomplish a phase separation into liquid PPS and the NMP solution, 15.9 kg 35 lb of liquid water were added to the reactor while the reactor mixture was stirred at a rotor speed of about 350 400 rpm. In addition, 2.7 kg 6 lb of sodium acetate were charged to reduce an excessive water vapor pressure buildup. The entire agitated reactor mixture was reheated until a temperature of about 266 C 510 F and a pressure of 2.31 MPa 335 psig were attained. Subsequently, the agitated mixture was cooled to about 121 C 172 kPa 250 F 25 psig during a period of 2 hours and diluted with 227 l 60 gallons of deionized water in a blend tank. The slurry was filtered through a 60 mesh metal screen sieve opening 0.25 mm in a Nutsche vacuum filtration unit and washed with 75.6 l 20 gallons of deionized water. Further washing and drying of the PPS polymer was carried out according to the procedure described in Example I. More recent polymerization runs showed that the above cited addition of sodium acetate and the reheating step after the addition of 15.9 kg 35 lb of H₂O to the reactor can be deleted without significant detrimental effects on the smoothness of the recovery operation or on polymer properties. In this example, the particle size distributions of PPS resin recovered by conventional solvent flashing Example I and by crystallization and cooling in the presence of water inventive water quench process, Example II are compared. The screening analyses were carried out as follows The dried PPS sample was poured onto the top screen of an electric Cenco Meinzer sieve shaker catalog number 18480 and shaken at speed setting 5 650 cycles per minute for 30 minutes. After weighing the amount on each screen, the shaking operation was repeated for 10 15 minutes until no more weight change occurred. The sieve battery was tapped with a wooden object before each weighing to loosen particles that clung to the screens. Screening data are listed in Table I. Data in Table I clearly show that the PPS resin of Run 2 Example II recovered by the inventive process of cooling the reactor mixture in the presence of water water quench process is considerably coarser and thus more easily filterable than PPS of Run 1 Example I recovered by convention solvent flashing. Also the problem of dustiness of the polymer during bagging, shipping and compounding will be considerably less for the coarser resin. This example compares the rate of air curing of control PPS resin recovered according to the process described in Example I and of a PPS resin recovered by the water quench process of this invention essentially in accordance with the procedure of Example II, with the exception that only water and no sodium acetate was added to the completed polymerization mixture before cooling for PPS precipitation. PPS samples were heated in air at 264 C 507 F for time intervals of 1 6 hours. The melt flow expressed in g 10 minutes, determined according to a modified ASTM procedure employing an orifice of 0.21 cm 0.0825 diameter, and 0.8 cm 0.315 length and an effective weight of 5.0 Kg, including the weight of the piston, at 316 C of both polymer samples is listed in Table II. Data in Table II show that PPS of Run 3 recovered by the inventive water quench process cured faster than the PPS of Run 1 recovered by solvent flashing. The benefit of the higher air cure rate of water quench recovered PPS would be that the curing capacity of commercial cure vessels would be higher for this PPS resin that for the current blender flashed PPS resin. This example shows that a coarse PPS resin, prepared in the presence of sodium acetate as a molecular weight modifier, is produced with the addition of water before cooling the completed polymerization mixture. The presence of sodium acetate plus water, including water liberated during the polymerization reaction, can effect the separation of the PPS and NMP phases and the precipitation of a coarse, granular resin. An aqueous sodium sulfide solution was prepared by mixing 33.1 kg 72.9 lb of a 50.35 weight percent NaOH solution with 40 kg 88.2 lb of a solution containing 58.62 weight percent of NaHS and 0.29 weight percent of Na₂S. This solution was charged to a stirred pilot plant reactor containing 10.7 kg 23.5 lb of sodium acetate and 105 l 27.7 gallons of NMP under a nitrogen atmosphere, followed by flushing with 30.2 l 8.0 gallons of NMP. The entire mixture was first heated without evaporation for 10 minutes at about 168 C 117 kPa 334 F 17 psig and then dehydrated by raising the temperature to about 232 C 449 F during a period of 95 minutes at a constant pressure of 117 kPa 17 psig . Subsequently 60.1 kg 132.5 lb of DCB were charged to the reactor, and the entire mixture was heated for 2 hours at a temperature ranging from 226 C 438 F initial to 232 C 450 F , at a pressure ranging from 207 kPa 30 psig initial to 449 kPa 65 psig . The reactor temperature was then raised to about 266 C 510 F , and the pressure was increased to about 861.25 kPa 125 psig during a time interval of 22 minutes. Continued heating of the reactor mixture was carried out for 3 hours at about 266 C 511 F and a pressure of 861 1034 kPa 125 150 psig . About 413 kPa 60 psig of CO₂ partial pressure were charged to the reactor, which was kept at about 267 C 1.47 MPa 512 F 213 psig for 30 minutes. Then the reactor pressure was lowered to about 1.1 MPa 160 psig , while the temperature was allowed to drop slightly to 264 C 508 F and some solvent vapor was vented. Thereafter, the reactor mixture was cooled to 189 C 372 F during a time interval of about 90 minutes, while being stirred at a rate of 350 400 r.p.m. The pressure dropped to 282 kPa 41 psig after dilution with 227 l 60 gallons of deionized water. Filtration and washing was carried out in accordance with the procedure described in Example II. This run is labeled Run 4. Two additional runs were carried out at essentially the same conditions as outlined above, except that in Run 5 9.1 kg 20.0 Ib of water and in Run 6 11,3 kg 25.0 lb of water were added after the CO₂ treatment. Screening sieving analysis of the resins produced in Runs 4, 5 and 6 were carried out in accordance with the procedure described in Example III. The particle size distribution of these resins is given in Table III. In this example the recovery of PPS prepared in the presence of sodium acetate added with sodium sulfide before the dehydration and 1,2,4 trichlorobenzene TCB, added with DCB after the dehydration is described. PPS resin prepared with the above cited ingredients is crosslinked and does not require air curing. It is generally used for extruding films, sheets and fibers and for making molded objects. PPS resin of this example was prepared essentially in accordance with the polymerization and water quench recovery procedure described in Example V, except that 178 milliliters of TCB and 7.55 l 2 gallons of NMP were added simultaneously with DCB. Four runs were carried out that differed with respect to the amount of water present after completion of the polymerization reaction and optional CO₂ treatment. In Run 7 the post polymerization mixture was extensively vented so as to expel all water before cool down for polymer solidification. In run 8 no water was added, but essentially all residual water remained in the post polymerization mixture during cooling and polymer solidification. In Runs 9 and 10, 5.4 kg 12.0 lb of water and 9.1 kg 20.0 lb of water, respectively, were added before cooling and polymer solidification. Screening analyses of PPS resins of Runs 7 10 of Example VII were carried out in accordance with the procedure outlined in Example III. Results are given in Table IV. Data in Table IV clearly show that water must be present before cool down of the post polymerization mixture in order to produce coarse, granular PPS resin. Water required for the phase separation and solidification of dispersed PPS droplets includes residual water liberated during the polymerization reaction, plus about 0.1 0.2 kg of additional water per kg PPS. Data for Runs 9 and 10 show that additional water augments the effect on PPS particle size. Generally, the PPS polymer recovered by the water quench process of this invention had a lower ash content than conventional blender flashed PPS washed with deionized water under equivalent conditions as indicated below. It is theorized that the water quenched resin of this invention generally contains less ash mainly NaCI because it has been separated more completely from slime , i.e., low molecular weight phenylene sulfide oligomers that contain a rather large amount of salt about 3 4 percent by weight . The slime passes easily through the 60 mesh sieve opening 0.25 mm filter screens employed for filtering the diluted, water quenched reactor mixture as described in Example II. The blender flashed control PPS, on the other hand, appears to incorporate some slime during the crystallization by solvent flashing at high temperature. This slime that is occluded in or fused onto PPS crystals is obviously not easily removed by washing with hot water and thus contributes to the higher salt content of PPS recovered by solvent flashing at elevated temperature. In this example the extrusion of fibers from PPS resin recovered by the water quench process of this invention is described. Said resin was prepared according to the procedure described in Example V. This resin had an ash content of 0.15 percent by weight a melt crystallization temperature of 204 C determined from a Perkin Elmer DSC 2C scanning calorimeter by cooling of the polymer melt starting at 320 C , and a flow rate of 345 g 10 minutes determined according to a modified ASTM D1238 method employing an orifice of 0.21 cm 0.0825 diameter and 0.8 cm 0.315 length and an effective weight of 5.0 Kg, including the weight of the piston, at 316 C . This granular PPS resin was dried under vacuum conditions at about 110 C for about 15 hours and then spun into fibers without prior pelletizing. The polymer was extruded in a 2.59 cm 1 Wayne Machine and Die Co. extruder through 60 100 200 Dynalloy XIIL 60 mesh filters sieve opening 0.25 mm and a spinneret having 34 holes of 1.22 cm 0.48 length and 0.03 cm 0.012 diameter, at a rate of about 14 grams per minute. After spinning for about three hours at a block temperature of about 149 C 300 F , the pack pressure increased to 8.27 MPa 1200 psig . The extruded strand of 34 yellow filaments was drawn over a hot plate of 100 C to a final draw ratio of 4.0. The denier weight in grams of 9000 meters of the drawn strand was 237, the tenacity was 3.2 grams per denier gpd , the initial modulus was 45 gpd, and the final elongation was 27 . These tensile properties were determined with an Instron 1122 tensile tester. This example describes the extrusion of film from a water quench recovered PPS resin prepared essentially in accordance with the procedure of Example VII. The resin was dried in a vacuum oven at about 110 C for about 15 hours and was then extruded in a 2.54 cm 1 NRM extruder, without prior pelletizing, through a slot die at a tempeature of about 320 C. The extruded film was passed over rolls having a temperature of 75 79 C. The oriented, slightly gold colored film was 5.08 cm 2 inches wide and 152 µm 6 mils thick and did not contain any visible bubbles. Its color was lighter than that of films prepared from PPS recovered by conventional solvent flashing in a blender at elevated temperature. This example describes molding applications of poly phenylene sulfide resin recovered by the water quench process of this invention and its cracking resistance as compared to conventional blender flashed PPS. Molding compounds were prepared according to either Recipe A or Recipe B. These components were mixed in a drum tumbler for 2 5 minutes and then compounded using a Davis standard 3.8 cm 1½ inch extruder with a compounding screw at 316 C 600 F and a screw speed of 100 120 r.p.m. The cooled compounds were injection molded for cracking tests after drying at 177 C 350 F for 3 6 hours. Injection molding was carried out in a New Britain 75 B injection molding machine having a disc mold of 5.1 cm 2 diameter and 1.3 cm ½ thickness, at a mold temperature of 38 C 100 F , a barrel temperature of 316 C 600 F , an injection time of 5 seconds, an injection hold time of 18 seconds, a cooling time of 150 seconds, an injection pressure of 6.9 MPa 1000 psig , a hold pressure of 6.9 MPa 1000 psig and a cushion thickness of 6.4 mm ¼ . 18 discs were molded from each compound and treated after cooling as follows One disc was left as molded. One disc was annealed at 204 C 400 F for two hours for surface examination 8 discs were sawed so as to produce 16 discs of 6.4 mm ¼ thickness each the half of each original disc opposite the sprue was discarded and the sprue half was annealed for two hours and allowed to cool for crack examination 8 discs were annealed at 204 C 400 F for 2 hours, allowed to cool to room temperature for 2 hours, sawed in half as outlined above, and the sprue half was examined for cracks after 24 hours. Cracking test results are summarized in Table V. Data in Table V show that PPS recovered by the inventive water quench method generally is more crack resistant in fiberglass filled molded objects than conventional PPS recovered by the blender flash method.