# Phosphorus derivatives of carbamimidothioic esters.

## Abstract
Phosphorous derivatives of carbamimidothioic acid es ters of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound corresponding to the formulaEMI40.1 wherein R is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms R is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, an alkoxy group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, al alkylthio group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or an amino or monoalkylamino group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms R2 is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 darbon atoms or an alkylthioalkyl group wherein each alkyl group independently contains from 1 to 4 carbon atoms R3 is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl, substituted phenyl, benzyl or substituted benzyl group R4 is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a benzyl or substituted benzyl group orR3 and R4 when taken together represent an alkylene group containing 4 to 6 carbon atoms which group can be straight or branched chain or a group of one of the formulaeEMI40.2 wherein A is oxygen, sulfur or NR X is oxygen or sulfur, Y is oxygen, sulfur or NH with the proviso that when Y is NH, R can also be hydrogen that when R is alkoxy and Y is oxygen, X is also oxygen that when R1 is alkoxy and Y is sulfur, X is also sulfur and that when R1 is alkylthio, X and Y are different. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 in which RêR3 and R4 are each independently an alkyl group. 3. A compound as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 in which X is oxygen. 4. A compound as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 in which X is sulfur. 5. Ethyl N methoxy methylthio phosphinothioyl N r N dimethylcarbamimidothioate. 6. Methyl N methoxy methylthio phosphinothioyl N, N dimethylcarbamimidothioate. 7. An insecticide composition comprising an inert carrier in admixture with an insecticidally effective amount of at least one active compound as claimed in any one of the preceding claims. 8. A method for the kill and control of insects which comprises contacting the insects or their habitat with a composition as claimed in claim 7, 9. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI42.1 wherein R, R1, R2, R3, R4, X and Y are as defined in claim 1, with the proviso that the combination of YR and R1 is one of the following YR R1 OR R SR R NHR R OR OR SR OR NHR OR which process comprises reacting together substantially equimolar amounts of an appropriate substituted carbamimidothioic acid ester of the formulaEMI42.2 and an appropriate phosphorus chloride of the formula EMI43.1 in the presence of a solvent and an HC1 acceptor. 10. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI43.2 wherein R, R1, R2, R3, R4, X and Y are as defined in Claim 1, with the proviso that the combination of YR and R1 is one of the following YR R1 OR OR SR SR NHR NHR which process comprises reacting one mole of an appropriate Nt dichlorophosphinyl N,N substituted carbamimidothioic ester of the formulaEMI43.3 with substantially 2 moles of a compound corresponding to the formula HYR in the presence of a solvent and an HC1 acceptor. 11. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI44.1 wherein R, R1 R2, R3 R4, X and Y are as defined in claim 1, with the proviso that the combination of YR and R1 is of the following YR R1 OR OR SR OR NHR OR which process comprises reacting substantially equimolar amounts of an appropriate N chloromethoxyphosphinyl N, N substituted carbamimidothioic acid ester of the formulaEMI44.2 and a compound of the formula HYR in the presence of a solvent and a HC1 acceptor. 12. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI45.1 wherein R, R1, R2, R3, R4, X and Y are as defined in claim 1 with the proviso that the combination of YR and R1 is one of the following YR R OR SR SR SR NHR SR which process comprises reacting substantially equimolar amounts of an appropriate chloromethylthiophosphinyl N,Nsubstituted carbamamidothioic acid ester of the formulaEMI45.2 with a compound of the formula HYR in the presence of a solvent and a HC1 acceptor. CLAIMS FOR AUSTRIA 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI46.1 wherein R is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms R is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, an alkoxy group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, al alkylthio group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or an amino or monoalkylamino group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms Rê is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms or an alkylthioalkyl group wherein each alkyl group independently contains from 1 to 4 carbon atoms is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl, substituted phenyl, benzyl or substituted benzyl group R4is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a benzyl or substituted benzyl group orR and R4 when taken together represent an alkylene group containing 4 to 6 carbon atoms which group can be straight or branched chain or a group of one of the formulaeEMI46.2 wherein A is oxygen, sulfur or NR X is oxygen or sulfur, Y is oxygen, sulfur or NH with the proviso that when Y is NH, R can also be hydrogen that when R1 is alkoxy and Y is oxygen, X is also oxygen that when R1 is alkoxy and Y is sulfur, X is also sulfur and that when R1 is alkylthio, X and Y are different with the proviso that the combination of YR and R1 is one of the following YR R1 OR R SR R NHR R OR OR SR OR NHR OR which process comprises reacting together substantially equimolar amounts of an appropriate substituted carbamimidothioic acid ester of the formulaEMI47.1 and an appropriate phosphorus chloride of the formula EMI48.1 in the presence of a solvent and an HC1 acceptor. 2. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI48.2 wherein R, R1, R2, R3, R4, X and Y are as defined in Claim 1, with the proviso that the combination of YR and R1 is one of the following YR R1 OR OR SR SR NHR NHR which process comprises reacting one mole of an appropriate N dichlorophosphinyl N,N substituted carbamimidothioic ester of the formulaEMI48.3 with substantially 2 moles of a compound corresponding to the formula HYR in the presence of a solvent and an HC1 acceptor. 3 . A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI49.1 wherein R, R1, R2, R3 R4 X and Y are as defined in claim 1, with the proviso that the combination of YR and R1 is of the following YR R1 OR OR SR OR NHR OR which process comprises reacting substantially equimolar amounts of an appropriate N chloromethoxyphosphinyl N,N substituted carbamimidothioic acid ester of the formulaEMI49.2 and a compound of the formula HYR in the presence of a solvent and a HC1 acceptor. 4 . A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI50.1 wherein R, R1, R2, R3, R4, X and Y are as defined in claim 1 with the proviso that the combination of YR and R1 is one of the following YR R1 OR SR SR SR NHR SR which process comprises reacting substantially equimolar amounts of an appropriate N chloromethylthiophosphinyl N,N substituted carbamamidothioic acid ester of the formulaEMI50.2 with a compound of the formula HYR in the presence of a solvent and a HCl acceptor. 5. An insecticidal composition comprising an inert carrier in admixture with an insecticidally effective amount of at least one active compound prepared by a process as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 4, 6. A method for the kill and control of insects which comprises contacting the insects or their habitat with a composition as claimed in claim 5.

## Description
PHOSPHORUS DERIVATIVES OF CARBAMIMIDOTHIOIC ACID ESTERS Various phosphorus derivatives of carbamimidothioic acid esters are known such as those taught inCzechoslovakian Patent No. 172,676. The present invention is directed to compounds corresponding to the formulaeEMI1.1 wherein R is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms R1 is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, an alkyl thio group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or an amino or monoalkylamino group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms R2 is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms or an alkylthioalkyl group wherein each alkyl group independently contains from 1 to 4 carbon atoms R3 is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl, substituted phenyl, benzyl or substituted benzyl group R4 is an alkyl group containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a benzyl or substituted benzyl group orR3 and R4 taken together represent an alkylene group containing 4 to 6 carbon atoms which group can be straight or branched chain or a group of one of the formulaeEMI2.1 wherein A is oxygen, sulfur or NR X is oxygen or sulfur Y is oxygen, sulfur or NH, with the proviso that when Y is NH, R can also be 1 hydrogen that when R1 is alkoxy and Y is oxygen, X is also oxygen that when R1 is alkoxy and Y is sulfur, X is also sulfur and that when R1 is alkylthio, X and Y are different. By the terms alkyl , aLkylthio , alkoxy and monoalkylamino as used herein are meant alkyl, alkylthio, alkoxy or monoalkylamino groups in which the alkyl group is either straight chaint, branched chain or cyclic. Such groups are, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, tertiary butyl, cyclopropyl and cyclobutyl. By the terms substituted phenyl and substituted benzyl as used herein are meant phenyl and benzyl groups containing independently from 1 to 5 chloro, bromo, fluoro, iodo or alkyl groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, with the proviso that all substituent groups must be sterically compatible with each other. By the term sterically compatible as used herein is meant substituent groups which are affected by steric hindrance as defined in The Condensed ChemicalDictionary , 7th edition, Reinhold Publishing Co. N.Y., page 893 1966 which definition is as follows steric hindrance. A characteristic of molecular structure in which the molecules have a spatial arrangement of their atoms such that a given.reaction with another molecule is prevented or retarded in rate . The preferred compounds of the present invention are those wherein R is methyl, YR is amino, alkoxy or monoalkylamino, R1 is alkoxy, amino or monoalkylamino, and R2, R3 and R4 are alkyl. More preferred compounds are those wherein R is methyl or ethyl, YR is methoxy, methylthio or ethylthio, R1 is ethyl amino, methyl, methylthio or isopropylthio, R2 is methyl, ethyl or isopropyl and R and R4 are each methyl. Even more preferred compounds are those wherein YR is methoxy,R1 is methylthio, R2 is methyl or ethyl and R3 andR4 are each methyl. The compounds of the present invention are either oils or crystalline solids and are soluble in many common organic solvents. In addition, the compounds of the present invention find utility as plant systemic insecticides and acaricides which are highly effective in the kill and control of aphids, scales, phytophagous mites and sucking insects. The compounds of the present invention can be prepared by a variety of methods as follows Method A Compounds having the following combinations of YR and R1 can be prepared employing this method YR R1 OR R SR R NHR R OR OR SR OR NHR OR Substantially equimolar amounts of an appropriate substituted carbamimidothioic acid ester of the formulaEMI4.1 and an appropriate phosphorus chloride of the formulaEMI4.2 are reacted together in the presence of a solvent and a HC1 acceptor. In carrying out the reaction, the substituted carbamimidothioic acid.ester and the phosphorus chloride reactants the solvent and the HC1 acceptor are mixed together in any convenient manner. The mixture is then stirred at a temperature between 150C and gentle reflux until all of the phosphorus reactant is consumed Representative solvents include, for example, acetonitrile, cyclohexane, benzene, toluene, xylene, acetone, methylene chloride, methylethyl ketone, dimethylether, dioxane and tetrahydrofuran. Representative hydrogen chloride absorbers acid binding agents include for example, alkali metal carbonates such as sodium and potassium carbonate and tertiary amines such as, for example, trimethylamine, triethylamine and pyridine. At the completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture is filtered to remove any insolubles and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is then taken up in ethyl ether, benzene, toluene, methylene chloride or chloroform and washed thoroughly with water and then with a saturated sodium chloride solution and dried. The solvent is removed by evaporation under reduced pressure leaving the desired product. Method B Compounds having the following combinations ofYR and R1 can be prepared employing this method YR R1 OR OR SR SR NHR NHR One mole of an appropriate N dichloro phosphinyl N,N substituted carbamimidothioic acid ester of the formulaeEMI6.1 and substantially 2 moles of a compound corresponding to the formula HYR are reacted together in the presence of a solvent and a HC1 acceptor. The reaction is conducted in a manner substantially the same as the reaction of Method A employing a temperature in the range of minus 50C to plus SO0C. The solvents, the HC1 acceptors and the method of recovery are the same as set forth inMethod A. Method C Compounds having the following clmbinations of YR and R1 can be prepared employing this method YR R1 OR OR SR OR NHR OR note YR OR and R NHR is the same compound Substantially equimolar amounts of an appropriate N chloromethoxyphosphinyl N, N substituted carbamimidothioic acid ester of the formulaEMI7.1 and a compound corresponding to the formula HYR are reacted together in the presence of a solvent and a HC1 acceptor. The reaction is conducted in a manner substantially the same as the reaction of Method A employing a temperature in the range of minus 5 C to plus 800C. The solvents, the HC1 acceptors and the method of recovery are the same as set forth in Method A. Method D Compounds having the following combinations ofYR and R1 can be prepared employing this method YR R1 OR SR SR SR NHR SR mite YR SR and R NHR is the same compound Substantially equimolar amounts of an appropriate N chloromethylthiophosphinyl N,N substituted carbamimidothioic acid ester of the formulaEMI8.1 and a compound corresponding to the formula HYR are reacted together in the presence of a solvent and a HC1 acceptor. The reaction is conducted in a manner substantially the same as the reaction of Method A employing a temperature in the range of minus 50C to plus 8O0C. The solvents, the HC1 acceptors and the method of recovery are the same as set forth in Method A.Example I Methyl N methoxy methylthio phosphinothioyl 4 morpholinecarboximidothioateEMI8.2 The oil from 0.9 g of 50 sodium hydride was removed by washing with hexane and the washed material was then added to 100 ml of tetrahydrofuran. This mixture was cooled to 50C and 3 g of methanethiol was added dropwise. The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and then a solution of 5 g of methyl N chloro methoxyphosphinothioyl 4 morpholinecarboximidothioate in 35 ml of tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for one hour and was heated to 400C for one hour. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure.The residue was dissolved in ether and the ether solution washed twice with 40 ml portions of water, once with a saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The solvent was removed in a rotary evaporator, leaving 4.7 g of oil. The NMR spectra indicated that methyl N methoxy methylthio phos phinothioyl 4 morpholinecarboximidothioate was the product and that it contained a small amount of impurity. The impurity was removed by heating the product to 550C at a pressure of 0.05 mm in a Kugelrohr. A yellow oil, RI 250 1.6199, was obtained. The IR and NICR spectra were in agreement with the desired structure.Analysis Calcd. for C8H17N2O2PS3 C, 31.99 H, 5.71 N, 9.33.Found C, 32.63 H, 5.68 N, 9.61. Compound 1 Example II Methyl N bis ethoxy phosphinyl N,N dimethyl carbamimidothioateEMI9.1 A mixture of 11.8 g of methyl N,N dimethylcarbamimidothioate, 20 g of finely powdered potassium carbonate, 100 ml of acetonitrile and 17.2 g of diethyl chlorophosphate was stirred and heated under gentle reflux until all phosphorus chloride was consumed. The insoluble salts were then removed by filtration and the filtrate concentrated under vacuum. The residue was dissolved in ether, the ether solution washed several times with water, once with a saturated sodium chloride solution and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate.The ether was removed in a rotary evaporator, leaving 16.8 g of the desired methyl N bis ethoxy phosphinyl N,N dimethylcarbamimidothioate as an amber colored oil. The product had a refractive index of 25 n 6 1.4867 and the IR and NMR spectra confirmed the structure of the product. Compound 2 Example III Methyl N ethoxy 1 methylethyl amino phos phinothioyl N, N dimethylcarbamimidothioate EMI10.1 To a stirred mixture of 6.56 g of methylN,N dimethylcarbamimidothioate, 8.2 g of finely powdered potassium carbonate, 60 ml of acetonitrile was added 9.6 g of O ethyl 1 methylethyl phosphoramidochloridothioate.The mixture was heated under gentle reflux for four hours and was then allowed to stir at room temperature overnight. The salts were removed by filtration and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was taken up in ether and the ether solution was washed with water followed by a saturated sodium chloride solution and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate.The ether was removed in a rotary evaporator, leaving the desired methyl N ethoxy l methylethyl amino phosphino thioyl N,N dimethylcarbamimidothioate as a pale amber colored oil. The product was recovered in a yield of 25 10.8 g and had a refractive index of na 1.5433. The NMR and IR spectra were in agreement with the desired structure.Analysis Calcd. for CgH22N3OPS2 C, 38.14 H, 7.83 N, 14.83.Found C, 38.07 H, 7.83 N, 14.88. Compound 3 Example IV Methyl N methoxy methylamino phospninothioyl N, N dimethylcarbamimidothioateEMI11.1 A mixture of 3.94 g of methyl N,N dimethylcarbamimidothioate, 75 ml of acetonitrile, 5.32 g of methyl O methyl phosphoramidochloridothioate and 5.0 g of finely powdered potassium carbonate was stirred at room temperature overnight s16 hours. The insoluble salts were then removed by filtration, the filtrate concentrated under vacuum. The residue was taken up in ether and the ether solution washed several times with water and then once with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate.The ether was removed in a rotary evaporator and the oil which remained was further purified by distilling off some lower boiling impurities in a Kugelrohr distillation unit at a bath temperature of 700C and a pressure of 0.1 mm. The methyl N methoxy methylamino phosphino thioyl N,N dimethylcarbamimidothioate product was recovered in a yield of 4.0 g. The product was a nearly colorless oil of approximately 94 percent purity and had a refractive index of n25 1.5843. The NMR and IR spectra were in agreement with the desired structure. Analysis Calcd. for C6H16N3OPS2 C, 29.86 H, 6.68 N, 17.41. Found C, 28.05 H, 6.17 N, 16.45. Compound 4 Example V Methyl N ethoxy l methylethyl amino phosphinothioyl 4 morpholinecarboximidothioate EMI12.1 A mixture of 8.0 g of methyl 4 morpholinecarboximidothioate, 8.2 g of finely powdered potassium carbonate, 60 ml of acetonitrile and 9.6 g of O ethyl l methylethyl phosphoramidochloridothioate was stirred and heated under gentle reflux for 4 hours. The insoluble salts were removed by filtration and the filtrate concentrated under vacuum. The residual oil was taken up in ether and the ether solution washed once with water, once with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The ether was removed under vacuum leaving the desired methyl N ethoxy l methylethyl amino phosphinothioyl 4 morpholinecarbox imidothioate as an amber colored oil.The product was recovered in a yield of 13.2 g 84 percent of theoretical and had a refractive index of 1.5505. The NMR and IR spectra are in agreement with the structure.Analysis Calcd. for C11E24N302P 2 C, 40.60 H, 7.43 N, 12.91.Found C, 40.00 H, 7.40 N, 12.76. Compound 5 Example VI Methyl N methoxy methyl phosphinothioyl N,N dimethylcarbamimidothioateEMI13.1 A mixture of 5.9 g of methyl N,N dimethylcarbamimidothioate, 50 ml of acetonitrile, 7.2 g of O methyl methyl phosphonochloridothioate, and 7.5 g of finely powdered potassium carbonate was stirred without heating for 2 hours. At this time no more starting phosphorus chloride could be detected by GLC. The insoluble salts were removed by filtration and the filtrate concentrated under vacuum. The residual oil was taken up in ether, the ether solution washed twice with water then once with a saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The ether was removed in a rotary evaporator leaving a pale reddish oil.GLC indicated the product was contaminated with starting methyl N,N dimethylcarbamimidothioate. The mixture was placed in a Kugelrohr and heated to 75 800C under a 0.1 mm vacuum. The oil which remained 8.9 g was further purified by high pressure liquid chromatography using a mixture of 30 acetone in hexane. The methyl N methoxy methyl phosphinothioyl N,N dimethylcarbamimidothioate product was recovered in a yield of 5.8 g as a colorless oil and had a refractive index of nd25 1.4795. GLC analysis showed materials was 94 pure, with starting material being the contaminant. NMR and IR spectra were in agreement with the desired structure.Analysis Calcd. for C6H15N2OPS2 C, 31.84 H, 6.68 N, 12.38.Found C, 30.60 H, 6.76 N, 11.08. Compound 6 Example VII Methyl N bismethylthio phosphinothioyl 4 morpholinecarboximidothioateEMI14.1 The oil from 3.3 g of 50 sodium hydride was removed by washing with hexane and the washed material was then added to 100 ml of tetrahydrofuran. This mixture was cooled to 5 C and 8 ml of methanethiol was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes and then a solution of 10.0 g of methyl N dichlorophosphinothioyl 4 morpholinecarboximidothioate in 50 ml of tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise. Stirring was continued at 50C for one hour, at room temperature for one hour and at 400 for one hour. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure.The residue was dissolved in methylene chloride and the methylene chloride solution was washed with three 60 ml portions of water and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate.The solvent was removed in a rotary evaporator leaving 9.4 g of an oil which solidified on standing. The methyl N bis methylthio phosphinothioyl 4 morpholinecarboximido thioate product was recrystallized from a methylene chloride hexane mixture giving white crystals, m.p. 85 86 . The IR and NMR spectra are in agreement with the desired structure.Analysis Calcd. for C8H17N2OPS4 C, 30.36 H, 5.42 N, 8.85.Found C, 30.05 H, 5.43 N, 8.65. Compound 7 Example VIII Ethyl N ethylthio methoxy phosphinothioyl N, N dimethylcarbamimidothioateEMI15.1 To a solution of 7.5 g of ethyl N chloro ethylthio phosphonothioyl N,N dimethylcarbamimido thioate in 100 ml of methylene chloride was added 20 ml of methanol and then dropwise 30 g of triethylamine.The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight.The triethylamine hydrochloride by product which formed was removed by filtration. The filtrate was washed four times with water, once with 5 aqueous sodium hydroxide, once with a saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed in a rotary evaporator leaving the ethyl N ethylthio methOxy phosphinothioyl N, dimethyl carbamimidothioate product leaving a pale amber colored oil. The product had a refractive index of nd25 1.5879. The IR and NMR spectra were in agreement with the structural assignment. Compound 8 . By following the preparative procedures as outlined the above methods of preparation and the above examples and employing the appropriate starting materials, the following compounds set forth inTable I are prepared. TABLE I EMI17.1 EMI17.2 SEP R SEP Physical SEP Property tb SEP N SEP Refractive SEP Index SEP or tb Compound SEP No. SEP Rê SEP R4 SEP X SEP YR SEP RÚ SEP Melting SEP Point SEP C tb SEP 9 SEP CH3 SEP O SEP SEP N SEP S SEP NHCH3 SEP NHCH3 SEP 112.5 113.5 tb SEP 10 SEP CH3 SEP C2H5 2N SEP O SEP OC2H5 SEP OC2H5 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.4860 tb SEP 11 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 2N SEP S SEP SCH3 SEP SCH3 SEP 50 52 tb SEP 12 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 2N SEP S SEP SC3H7 SEP OC2H5 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.5736 tb SEP 13 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 2N SEP S SEP SCH3 SEP OCH3 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.6162 tb SEP 14 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 2N SEP O SEP SCH3 SEP SCH3 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.6071 tb RTI ID 18.1 TABLE I EMI18.1 SEP R SEP Physical SEP Property tb SEP N SEP Refractive SEP Index SEP or tb Compound SEP No. SEP Rê SEP R4 SEP X SEP YR SEP RÚ SEP Melting SEP Point SEP C tb SEP 15 SEP CH3 SEP O SEP SEP N SEP O SEP OC2H5 SEP OC2H5 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.5140 tb SEP 16 SEP CH3 SEP O SEP SEP N SEP S SEP SC2H5 SEP OC2H5 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.5670 tb SEP 17 SEP CH3 SEP SEP N SEP O SEP OC2H5 SEP OC2H5 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.5125 tb SEP 18 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 2N SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP OCH3 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.5224 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 19 SEP C2H5 SEP N SEP S SEP OCH3 SEP SCH3 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.6016 tb SEP CH3 tb TABLE I Continued EMI19.1 SEP R SEP Physical SEP Property tb SEP N SEP Refractive SEP Index SEP or tb Compound SEP No. SEP Rê SEP R4 SEP X SEP YR SEP RÚ SEP Melting SEP Point SEP C tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 20 SEP CH CH3 2 SEP N SEP S SEP OCH3 SEP SCH CH3 2 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.5619 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 21 SEP CH3 SEP N SEP S SEP SC2H5 SEP NHC2H5 SEP nd25 SEP SEP 1.6025 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 22 SEP CH3 SEP N SEP S SEP NHCH3 SEP NHCH3 SEP 97 98 C tb SEP CH3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 23 SEP CH3 SEP N SEP S SEP NH2 SEP NH2 SEP 94 96 C tb SEP CH3 tb The compounds of the present invention are very effective for the control of the many insect pests found on the roots or aerial portions of growing plants, including sucking insects such as aphids, scales, and phytophagous mites. These compounds are also effectively employed against rice insect pests, such as, for example, rice stem borers, rice green leafhoppers and rice brown planthoppers. Moreover, the compounds effectively kill or inhibit the reproduction of plant pathogenic fungi, and therefore they are applicable to the control of plant diseases caused by various kinds of fungus.These esters can be employed as fungicides against plant diseases including those caused by Phycomycetes and Ascomycetes. These esters are particularly useful against plant pathogenic fungi of rice, fruit trees and vegetables. Representative of the various insect pest which are killed and controlled by the active compounds of the present invention are members of the ordersHomoptera, Thysanoptera, Hemiptera, Coleoptera,Lepidoptera, Orthoptera and Acarina. More specifically, kill and control is obtained for insects such as aphids Aphididae such as the green peach aphid Myzus persicae , the bean aphid Aphis fabae , the black cherry aphid Myzus ceraci , the pea aphid Acythorsiphum pisum and the potato aphid Macrosiphum euphorbiae , the currant gall aphid CrwFptomyzus ribis , the mealy apple aphid Sappaphis mali , the mealy plum aphid Hvalopterus pruni , the cotton aphid Aphis gossypii , and the whiteflies Aleyrodidae including the banded wing whitefly Trialeurodes abutilonea , grape whitefly Trialeurodes vittata , greenhouse whitefly Trialeurodes vaporarium and sweet potato whitefly Bemisia tabacii in addition, scales such as the SanJose scale Aspidiotus perniciosus , oyster scale Lepidosaphes ulnii , the California red scale Aonidiella aurantii , black scale Saissetia olea , Terapin scale Lecanium sp and the oleander scale Aspidiotus hederae mealybugs coccidae such as the grape mealybug Pseudococcus maritimus , greenhouse mealybug Pseudococcus sp and citrus mealybug Planococcus sp thrips Thysanoptera such as Hercinothrips femoralis , gladiolus thrips Taeniothrips sp , onion thrips Thrips tabacii , greenhouse thrips Heliothrips sp , flower thrips Frankliniella sp and rice thrips Chloethrips oryzae , and bugs, for example the beet bug Piesma guadrata , squash bug Anasa sp , harlequin bugs Murgntia histriconica , Trigonotylus sp ,Corbett ricebug Leptocorixa corbetti , slender ricebug Cletus trigonus , black ricebug Scotinophora lurida , plant bugs Lygus sp , fleahoppers Y,alticus sp , cotton fleahoppers Psallus sp , the cotton bug Dysdercus intermedius and stinkbugs such as the southern green stinkbug Nezara viridulla and leafhoppers and planthoppers, such as aster leafhopper Macrosteles fascifrons , rice green leafhopper Nephotettix virescens , zig zag leafhopper Recilia dorsalis , Nephotettix apicalis , white back planthopper Sogattella furcifera , smaller brown planthopper Laodelphax striatellus , grape leafhopper Erythroneura sp , potato leafhopper Empoasca fabae , apple sucker Psylla mali , pear psylla Psylia pyricola , potato psillid Paratrioza cockerlelli and brown planthopper Nilaparvata lucens , Borers Letidoptera such as rice stemborer Chilo sp , pink borer Sesamia sp and paddy borer Tryporyza sp and the like as well as Western spotted cucumber beetle Diabrotica undecimpunctata and rice water weevil Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus and the mites Acarina in particular, the spider mites Tetranychidae such as the two spotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae , carmine spider mite Tetranychus cinnabarinus and the European red mite Panonychus ulmi , blister mites, for example the currant blister mite Eriophyes ribis and tarsonemids, for example the broad mite Hemitarsonemus latus , the cyclamen mite Tarsonemus pallidus and the like. In the present specification and claims, the term systemic defines the translocation of the active compound employed in the present method through the plant. The active compound can be applied either to the above ground or preferably to below ground portions of the plant. The application of an insecticidally effective or fungicidally effective amount of an active compound of the present invention is critical to the method of the present invention. The active compound can sometimes be employed in unmodified form. Freguently, however, for easier application, the compound is modified by the employment with it of an adjuvant or inert carrier therefor. Thus, for example, many of the present compounds are very soluble in water and they are also relatively soluble in oils, including plant essential oils. Therefore, the practical enjoyment of the beneficial utilities of the present compound often requires that the compound be composited with one or more pesticidal adjuvant substances, and the resulting compositions are comprehended within the present invention. The compositions can be formulated in various forms, such as emulsifiable concentrates, wettable powders, flowable suspension dusts, granules, microencapsulated granules, fine granules, oil sprays, aerosols, and the adjuvant employed can be any one or a plurality of materials including aromatic solvents, petroleum distillates, water, or other liquid carriers, propellant substances, surface active dispersing agents, light absorbers, and finely divided carrier solids. In such compositions, the adjuvant cooperates with the active compound so as to obtain a composition to facilitate the method of the present invention, and to obtain an improved result.The use of either a surface active dispersing agent or a finely divided carrier solid and the use of both a surface active dispersing agent and a finely divided carrier solid, simultaneously, constitute preferred embodiments of the method of the present invention. Another preferred embodiment of the present invention is a composition comprising one or more of the presently claimed compounds, an organic liquid as a solvent and carrier therefor, and a propellant material. Numerous other embodiments will become available to those skilled in the art in view of the teachings set forth hereinbelow. The exact concentration of the active compound in a composition thereof with an adjuvant therefor can vary it is only necessary that the active compounds be present in a sufficient amount so as to make possible the application of an insecticidally effective dosage.Generally, for practical applications, the active compounds can be broadly applied to the plants or to the soil around the roots of the plants or to water, sch as in broadcast rice paddy applications in compositions containing from 0.00001 percent to 98 percent by weight of the active compound. In preparation of dust compositions, the product can be compounded with any of the finely divided carrier solids such as prophyllite, diatomaceous earth, gypsum and the like. In such operations, the finely divided carrier is ground or mixed with the active compound, as active agent, or wetted with a solution of the active agent in a volatile organic solvent. Similarly, dust compositions containing the active product can be similarly compounded from various of the solid dispersing agents, such as fuller s earth, attapulgite and other clays. These dust compositions can be employed as treating compositions or can be employed as concentrates and subsequently diluted with additional solid dispersing agent or with pyrophyllite, diatomaceous earth, gypsum and the like to obtain the desired amount of active agent in a treating composition.Also, such dust compositions can be dispersed in water, with or without the aid of surfactant, to form spray mixtures. Further, the active compound or a dust concentrate composition containing said compound can be incorporated in intimate mixture with surface active dispersing agents such as ionic and nonionic emulsi fying agents to form spray concentrates. Such concentrates are readily dispersible in liquid carriers to form sprays containing the toxicant in any desired amount.The choice of dispersing agent and amount thereof employed are determined by the ability of the agent to facilitate the dispersion of the concentrate in the liquid carrier to produce the desired spray composition. In the preparation of liquid compositions, the active compound can be compounded with a suitable water immiscible organic liquid and a surface active dispersing agent to produce an emulsifiable liquid concentrate which can be further diluted with water and oil to form spray mixtures in the form of oil in water emulsions. In such compositions, the carrier comprises an aqueous emulsion, that is, a mixture of water immiscible solvent, emulsifying agent and water. Preferred dispersing agents to be employed in these compositions are oil soluble and include the nonionic emulsifiers such as the polyoxyethylene derivatives of sorbitan esters, complex ether alcohols and the like.However, oil soluble ionic emulsifying agents such as mahogany soaps can also be used. Suitable organic liquids to be employed in the compositions include petroleum oils and distillates, toluene liquid halohydrocarbons and synthetic organic oils. The surface active dispersing agents are usually employed in liquid compositions in the amount of from 0.1 to 20 percent by weight of the combined weight of the dispersing agent and active compound. When operating in accordance with the present invention, the active compound or a composition containing the active compound is applied to the plants or to their habitat in any convenient manner, for example, by means of hand dusters or sprayers. Application to the foliage of plants is conveniently carried out with power dusters, boom sprayers and fog sprayers. In such foliar applications, the employed compositions should not contain any appreciable amounts of any phytotoxic diluents. In large scale operations, dusts, or low volume sprays can be applied from an airplane. In further embodiments, one of the compounds of the present invention or compositions containing the same, can be advantageously employed in combination with one or more additional pesticidal compounds. Such additional pesticidal compounds may be insecticides, nematocides, arthropodicides, herbicides, fungicides or bactericides that are compatible with the compounds of the present invention in the medium selected for application and not antagonistic to the activity of the present compounds. Accordingly, in such embodiments, the pesticidal compound is employed as a supplemental toxicant for the same or for a different pesticidal use, or as an additament. The compounds in combination can generally be present in the ratio of from 1 to 99 parts of the compound of the present invention with from 99 to 1 part of the additional compound s . Dosage amounts are generally from 15 1,000 grams g preferably from 40 600 g of active compound and most preferably from 125 500 g of active compound per hectare. However, in special cases, it is possible to exceed or reduce the amount and this may sometimes be necessary.Example IX Seventy five grams of air dried soil were placed in a small container. To the soil was added sufficient volume of a 400 ppm dispersion, preparedate by admixing a predetermined amount of one of the hereinafter set forth compounds, dissolved in a suitable inert solvent, with a predetermined amountbf Water and a preetermined amount of surfactant, to give various predetermined concentrations of the toxXcant in the soil on a soil chemical basis. The treated soil was air dried and thoroughly mixed. To each treated container, and control containers treated with water and surfactant alone, was added 0.5 milliliters of an aqueous suspension of the eggs of the Western spotted cucumber beetle WSCB 70 80 eggs of 3 4 days old .Additional treated soil was used to cover the eggs and a corn seed was placed in the soil and covered with additional treated soil. The containers were thereafter maintained under conditions conducive to the growth of the seeds and the hatching of the eggs. Ten to twelve 10 12 days after treatment, the containers and the plants therein were examined to determine the minimum concentration in parts of active compound per million parts of the ultimate dispersion necessary to give at least a 100 per cent kill and control of the larvae from the hatched eggs. The results of this examination are set forth below in Table II. TABLE II Minimum Concentration in ppm Number of of active compound in soil active Compound to give a LC100 of WSCB Larvae 1 37.5 2 25 3 37.5 4 37.5 5 37.5 6 37.5 7 37.5 8 37.5 9 37.5 12 37.5 TABLE II Continued Minimum Concentration in ppm Number of of active compound in soil active Compound to give a LC100 of WSCB Larvae 13 37.5 14 37.5 15 25 16 25 17 25 18 37.5 19 37.5 20 37.5 21 37.5 22 37.5 23 37.5Example X Aqueous dispersions were prepared by admixing one of the hereinafter set forth compounds, dissolved in a suitable inert solvent with a predetermined quantity of water and a predetermined amount of a surfactant to give aqueous dispersions containing varying predetermined amounts of one of the compounds as the sole toxicant. Separate chili pepper plants were infested with green peach aphids. A predetermined volume of chemical was injected into the root zone area of the plant. In a like manner, green peach aphids were placed on control plants and the root zone area of the plants was injected with a solution containing only water and surfactant. The plants were maintained under conditions conducive to the growth of the plants and aphids, After a period of three days, the plants were examined to determine the minimum concentration in parts of the active compound per million parts of the ultimate dispersion necessary to give at least a 95 percent systemic kill and control of the green peach aphids. The results of this examination are set forth below in Table III. TABLE III Minimum Concentration in ppm of active compound in dispersion to Number of give LC95 for the systemic active Compound control of green peach aphid 2 400 3 400Example XI Aqueous dispersions were prepared by admixing one of the hereinafter set forth compounds, dissolved in a suitable inert solvent, with a predetermined quantity of water and a predetermined amount of a surfactant to give aqueous dispersions containing varying predetermined amounts of one of the compounds as the sole toxicant. Separate cotton plants were infested with 20 two spotted spider mites and the plants sprayed with one of the dispersions to run off. In a like manner, 20 two spotted spider mites were placed on control plants and the plants sprayed to run off with a solution containing only water and surfactant.The plants were maintained under conditions conducive to the growth of the plants and mites. After a period of five days, the plants were examined to determine the minimum concentration in parts of the active compound per million parts of the ultimate dispersion necessary to give at least 95 percent kill and control of the two spotted spider mites. The results of this examination are set forth below in Table IV. TABLE IV Minimum Concentration in ppm of active compound in dispersion to give Number of LC for foliar control of active Compound tXo spotted spider mite 1 400 2 400 3 400 4 400 5 400 6 400 7 400 8 400 9 400 12 400 13 400 14 400 15 100 400 16 400 17 400 18 400 19 400 20 400 21 400 22 400 23 400 Example XII Aqueous dispersions were prepared by admixing one of the hereinafter set forth compounds, dissolved in a suitable inert solvent, with a predetermined quantity of water and a predetermined amount of a surfactant to give aqueous dispersions containing varying predetermined amounts of one of the compounds as the sole toxicant. Separate cotton plants were infested with 20 two spotted spider mites and a predetermined volume of the test dispersion was injected into the root zone of the plants to determine systemic insecticidal effects. In a like manner, 20 two spotted spider mites were placed on control plants and a solution containing only water and surfactant was injected into the root zone. The plants were maintained under conditions conducive to the growth of the plants and mites. After a period of five days, the plants were examined to determine the minimum concentration in parts of the active compound per million parts of the ultimate dispersion necessary to give at least 95 percent kill and control of the two spotted spider mites. The results of this examination are set forth below inTable V. TABLE V Minimum Concentration in ppm of active compound in dispersion to give Number of LC95 for systemic control of active Compound two spotted spider mite 1 400 2 25 100 3 100 TABLE V continued Minimum Concentration in ppm of active compound in dispersion to give Number of LC95 for systemic control of active Compound two spotted spider mite 4 400 5 400 6 400 7 400 8 400 9 400 12 400 13 400 14 400 15 25 100 16 400 17 400 18 400 19 400 20 400 21 400 22 400 23 400Example XIII Aqueous dispersions were prepared by admixing one of the hereinafter set forth compounds with a predetermined quantity of water and a predetermined amount of a surfactant to give aqueous dispersions containing varying predetermined amounts of one of the compounds as the sole toxicant. Separate rice plants were dipped into one of the dispersions and permitted to dry. A plastic cylinder was placed around each of the plants and 10 adult Aster leafhoppers were placed in the cylinder and the cylinder capped. In a like manner, 10 adult Aster leafhoppers were placed on control plants which had been dipped in a solution containing only water and surfactant. The plants were maintained under conditions conducive to the growth of the plants and leafhoppers. After a period of three days, the cylinder and plants were examined to determine the minimum concentration in parts of the active compound per million parts of the ultimate dispersion necessary to give at least 95 percent kill and control of theAster leafhopper. The results of this examination are set forth below in Table VI. TABLE VI Minimum Concentration in ppm of active compound in dispersion to give Number of LD 95 for foliar control of active Compound Aster leafhoppers 1 400 2 100 3 400 4 400 5 400 6 25 7 400 8 100 9 400 11 100 TABLE VI Continued Minimum Concentration in ppm of active compound in dispersion to give Number of LD95 for foliar control of active Compound Aster leafhoppers 12 400 13 25 14 25 15 400 16 400 17 400 18 100 19 25 20 25 21 25 22 100 23 100Example XIV Aqueous dispersions were prepared by admixing one of the hereinafter set forth compounds with a predetermined quantity of water and a predetermined amount of a surfactant to give aqueous dispersions containing varying predetermined amounts of one of the compounds as the sole toxicant. Separate rice plants were treated by adding a predetermined amount of one of the test dispersions to the root of the plant to determine systemic activity. A plastic cylinder was placed around each of the plants and 10 adult Aster leafhoppers were placed in the cylinder and the cylinder capped. In a like manner, 10 adult Aster leafhoppers were placed on control plants which were injected at the root zone with a solution containing only water and surfactant. The plants were maintained under conditions conducive to the growth of the plants and leafhoppers. After a period of three days, the cylinder and plants were examined to determine the minimum concentration in parts of the active compound per million parts of the ultimate dispersion necessary to give at least 95 percent kill and control of the Aster leafhopper. The results of this examination are set forth below inTable VII. TABLE VII Minimum Concentration in ppm of active compound in dispersion to give Number of LD 95 for systemic control active Compound of Aster leafhoppers 1 400 2 400 3 400 4 100 5 400 6 25 7 400 8 400 9 400 11 400 12 400 13 6.25 14 100 15 400 16 400 17 400 TABLE VII Continued Minimum Concentration in ppm of active compound in dispersion to give Number of LD95 for systemic control active Compound of Aster leafhoppers 18 400 19 6.25 20 100 21 100 22 100 23 100 When applied at a dosage level as hereinabove set forth, each of the compounds of the present invention, the utility of which is not specifically exemplified hereinabove, has the ability to kill, inhibit or otherwise control one or more of the above said or other fungal or insect pests. The substituted carbamimidothioic acid esters corresponding to the formulaEMI36.1 wherein R2, R3 and R4 are as hereinbefore defined are for the most part known compounds and can be prepared by the reaction of an appropriate carbothioamide corresponding to the formula EMI37.1 the the appropriate alkyl halide or alkylthioalkylhalide followed by treatment of the corresponding S alkyl or S alkyl S alkyl N,N substituted isothiourea thus formed with a base to obtain the desired carbamimidothioic acid ester. In carrying out this reaction, the alkylhalide reactant is slowly added to a mixture of the carbothioamide reactant and a solvent such as methanol, ethanol or toluene. The mixture is then heated under reflux until the reaction is complete from 1 to 4 hours or more . The reaction mixture is heated under reduced pressure to remove most of the solvent and the product is recovered by filtration. The product which is in the form of the hydrogen halide salt can be treated directly with a base such as, a dilute aqueous sodium or potassium hydroxide solution or if desired, the product can be separated and purified by recrystallization from one of the solvents listed above and then treated with the base to obtain the product as the free base. The substituted carbothioamides corresponding to the formulaEMI37.2 wherein R3 and R4 are as hereinbefore defined are for the most part known compounds and can be prepared in a two step process. In the first step, substantially equimolar amounts of tertiary butyl isothio cyanate and an appropriate amine are reacted together in the presence of a solvent. The thus formed tertiary butyl thiourea is then treated with concentrated hydrochloric acid to remove the tertiary butyl group leaving the desired compound. In carrying out this reaction, the tertiary butyl isothiocyanate is very slowly added to a stirred solution of the amine reactant in a solvent such as hexane, benzene or toluene which is at a temperature of from 10 to 200C. The stirring mixture is allowed to warm up to room temperature to 2 hours and the product precipitates out and is recovered by filtration. The product can be purified if desired by recrystallization from a solvent such as ethanol, hexane, benzene or toluene. The thiourea product, prepared as above, is admixed with from 2 to 4 moles of concentrated hydrochloric acid and the mixture heated to a temperature of from 500 to 950C. The heating is conducted until all of the thiourea reactant is dissolved. The tertiary butyl chloride is then distilled off. The solution is cooled to s200C and made basic by the addition of aqueous sodium hydroxide. The desired product is then recovered by filtration. The product can be purified, if desired, by water washing and or recrystallization of from a solvent such as ethanol. The N disubstitutedphosphinyl N,N substituted carbamimidothioic acid esters which are employed as starting materials can be prepared by a method wherein substantially equimolar amounts of an appropriate substituted carbamimidothioic acid ester and either a thiophosphoryl halide or a phosphorus oxyhalide are reacted together in the presence of a solvent and a HC1 acceptor. The reaction is conducted in a manner substantially the same as the reaction of Method A employing temperatures in the range of minus 100 to 500C. The solvents, the HC1 acceptors and the method of recovery are the same as set forth in Method A.