# METHOD OF AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING PHASE

## Abstract
A continuous wave electromagnetic distance measuring system comprises a master station 12.3 and a remote station 12.4. A pattern signal having an accurately known pattern frequency is propagated electromagnetically from the mas ter station to the remote station and an auxiliary pattern signal is propogated electromagnetically from the remote station to the master station. Mixing of the pattern and auxiliary pattern signals produces a first comparison signal at the master station and a second comparison signal at the remote station, the comparison signals each having a frequency which is equal to the frequency difference be tween the pattern and auxiliary pattern signals. The first comparison signal is phase compared with a first reference signal to provide first phase data, and the second compari son signal is phase compared with a second reference signal to provide second phase data. The second phase data is relayed in coded form to the master station. First and second phase data resulting from a plurality of pattern auxiliary pattern signal combinations is processed at the master station to obtain an accurate indication of the distance between the stations. The pattern signal and the first reference signal are each derived from a first clock signal. Similarly, the auxiliary pattern signal and the second refer ence signal are each derived from a second clock signal. By selection of suitably stable reference oscillators for produc ing the clock signals, errors introduced through phase slip between the clock signals can be reduced to negligible proportions. There is disclosed a method of compensating precisely for any such errors by computing and then applying a correction factor. There is also disclosed a method of straddle measuring in which any such errors automatically fall away.