# Microelectronic device manufacture

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, NL

## Description
This invention relates to a method of forming patterns in the manufacture of microelectronic devices such as LSI devices and bubble memory devices, and more particularly to a pattern forming method which employs a dry etching technique for the transfer of resist patterns and utilizes as resist material a polymer containing silyl groups. Such a resist material is known, e.g. from CA vol. 93, No. 10, abstract 104849. In the manufacture of microelectronic devices such as semiconductor integrated circuit devices including LSI devices and bubble memory devices, optical lithography and electron beam lithography are prevailing techniques to form fine patterns. With the recent tendency to make the patterns in such devices more and more fine, dry etching processes such as gas plasma etching, reactive sputter etching and ion milling have been employed in place of the conventional wet etching processes for transferring resist patterns obtained by an exposure and development process to the substrates with high accuracy. Accordingly there is a keen demand for improved resist materials that are sufficiently endurant to dry etching and high insensitivity and resolving capability. The thickness of a resist layer is an important factor in realization of high resolution patterns. However, in the industrial manufacturing processes it is not seldom that the surface of the substrate to be etched has steps, and in such cases it is required to form a considerably thick resist layer in order to accomplish complete coverage of the steps and to provide a flat surface. This is unfavorable for attaining high resolution. When using a negative type resist, it is very difficult to form a high resolution pattern in a thick resist layer because swelling of the resist during the development treatment becomes significantly detrimental to the precision of the pattern. Also when using a positive type resist, high resolution patterning of a thick resist layer is difficult due to adverse influences of backscattering from the substrate in the case of electron beam lithography and reflection from the substrate in the case of optical lithography. Particularly over the stepped areas of the substrate, significant variations on the resist pattern lines width are liable to occur despite constancy of exposure by reason of extraordinarily strong proximity effects. To solve such difficulties, J.M. Moran et al have proposed a three layer technique in Journal of Vacuum Science and Technology, Vol. 16, No. 6, pp. 1620 1624 1979 . According to this three layer technique the first layer which covers the substrate surface and provides a flat surface is a sufficiently thick layer of an organic material, and the intermediate layer is formed of an inorganic material that can not easily be etched by dry etching using oxygen, such as silicon dioxide or silicon nitride. The third or top layer is a thin resist layer. In the patterning process, first the resist layer is exposed to light, X ray or electron beam and developed to generate a high resolution pattern. Next, the intermediate layer is subjected to dry etching with the resist pattern as a mask, and then the pattern of the intermediate layer is transferred into the thick organic layer by reactive sputter etching using oxygen gas. By employing this three layer technique a high resolution pattern can be generated in the resist layer firstly because it is possible to use a desirably thin resist layer for pattern generation and secondly because unfavorable influences of backscattering of electrons from the substrate or reflection of light waves from the substrate can be avoided. The high resolution pattern can accurately be transferred into the thick organic layer by sequential etching. However, from an industrial point of view it is a disadvantage of the three layer technique that the processing operations becomes complicated and time consuming mainly because of the addition of the intermediate layer which is formed by vacuum deposition, sputtering or plasma CVD method. If it is practicable to use a resist material that is endurant to dry etching using oxygen, it becomes possible to etch a thick organic layer by directly using the resist layer for initial patterning as a mask, and hence the above described three layer structure can be simplified to a two layer structure. To our knowledge, however, such a conveniant resist material is not available in the present state of the art. Polydimethylsiloxane is known as endurant to dry etching to such extent that the etch rate of this material by O₂ plasma etching is nearly zero. However, polydimethylsiloxane is unsuitable for practical use as a patterning resist material because this material is liquid at room temperature even in the form of coating film so that the film is liable to suffer from adhesion of dust particles, damages on the surface and or inconvenience for handling attributed to its fluidity. A pattern forming method according to the invention comprises the steps of forming on an etchable substrate an organic polymer layer which can be etched by dry etching forming on the organic polymer layer a resist film comprising a polymer having at least 10¹⁶ cm² substituted silyl sidechain groups selected from trialkylsilyl , dimethylphenylsilyl and trialkoxysilyl groups forming a desired pattern in the resist film by optical lithography, X ray lithography or electron beam lithography etching the organic polymer layer by dry etching using an oxygen containing gas with the patterned resist film as a mask and etching the substrate with the unetched areas of the organic polymer layer as a mask. EP A0090615, published after the EP filing date of the present patent and designating only the states DE,FR and GB, discloses a 2 layer pattern forming method of the present type in which the resist film comprises a polymer incorporating an indeterminate number of silicon containing groups directly attached to the polymer backbone chain by their silicon atoms. Separate claims below for the designated states DE,FR and GB specify that in the method of the invention the resist film comprises a polymer having at least 10¹⁶ cm² substituted silyl sidechain groups selected from trialkylsilyl , dimethylphenylsilyl and trialkoxysilyl groups connected to the polymer backbone chain other than directly by their silicon atoms. The primary feature of the invention resides in the resist film. The polymer as the resist material must comprise a monomer unit having a trialkylsilyl group, dimethylphenylsilyl group or trialkoxysilyl group the composition of the resist material and the film thickness needs to be such that the number of the substituted silyl groups in 1 cm² of film is not less than 10¹⁶. Insofar as these requirements are met, the resist material be a polymer only of monomer s having substituted silyl group s and or copolymer of such monomer with other monomer which need not have any silicon containing group. For the organic polymer layer that directly covers the substrate surface, one may use a conventional polymer material such as novalak resin. We have discovered that polymers formed by using monomer having a substituted silyl group as specified above are endurant to oxygen plasma. Furthermore, when such polymer is formed into a film such that the number of said substituted silyl groups in the film is at least 1 x 10¹⁶ cm² and the film is subjected to reactive sputter etching using oxygen, there occurs lowering in the etch rate with lapse of time and, in a short time, the etch rate drops below a few angstroms per minute so that in a practical sense the resist film does not undergo further etching. For comparison, in the case of widely used novolak resin film the etch rate remains constant at a relatively high level such as 70 80 mm min 700 800 Å min with practically no change with etching time. Therefore, a resist pattern formed in the method according to the invention exhibits sufficient endurance to serve as a mask for dry etching of the underlaying organic polymer layer which may be a relatively thick layer. The number of the substituted silyl groups in the resist film depends on the thickness of the resist film, but it is unsuitable to make the resist film unnecessarily thick because then it becomes difficult to form fine resist patterns by usual exposure and development processes. By using the pattern forming method according to the invention, a fine pattern formed in a very thin resist film can accurately be transferred into a relatively thick organic polymer layer. Fine and high resolution patterns can easily be obtained firstly because the resist film can be made sufficently thin and secondly because the organic polymer layer directly covering the substrate surface can be made thick enough to completely cover possible steps on the substrate surface and to avoid unfavorable influences of backscattering from the substrate in the case of using electron beam lithography and reflection from the substrate in the case of using optical lithography. As an additional advantage of this method, the processing steps are simplified compared with the three layer technique described hereinbefore. The invention is further illustrated by the following detailed description with reference to the accompanying drawings. The single Figure is a graph showing the manner of changes in the thickness of resist film subjected to reactive sputter etching using oxygen with respect to some examples of the present invention and conventional materials for reference. The substituted silyl containing monomers are preferably selected from ones represented by the following general formulae Monomers having trialkylsilyl group where R represents a lower alkyl group such as methyl, ethyl, propyl or butyl group. where R represents a lower alkyl group. where R represents a lower alkyl group, and R represents hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group. Monomers having dimethylphensilyl group Monomers having trialkoxysilyl group where R represents a lower alkyl group, and R represents hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group. In the case of using a copolymer as the resist material, it is suitable to copolymerize an ethylenic unsaturated monomer with a monomer having a substituted silyl group. Examples of useful ethylenic unsaturated monomers are methyl, ethyl, propyl, glycidyl, vinyl and allyl esters of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid, derivatives of styrene such as divinylbenzene, o , m or p chloromethylstyrene and α methylstyrene, vinyl acetate, diallyl phthalate, diallyl terephthalate, methylvinyl ketone, N vinylpyrrolidone and vinylpyridine. The resist materials according to the invention are soluble in a variety of familiar organic solvents and high in glass transition temperature and, therefore, can easily be formed into a film of good quality. These resist materials are highly endurant to oxygen plasma as described hereinbefore, and they are glassy at room temperature and hence convenient for practical uses. In the case of polymers having trialkoxysilyl groups, sometimes the resist film tends to undergo hydrolysis if left standing for a long time and consequently undergoes cross linking to become less soluble in organic solvents. Polymers having trialkylsilyl group or dimethylphenylsilyl group do not exhibit such tendency and therefore are preferable. In the pattern forming method according to the present invention, first the substrate surface is covered with the organic polymer layer and then the resist film is formed usually by spinning of a solution of a selected resist material in an organic solvent and drying the applied solution by adequate heating. Then a desired pattern is delineated on the resist film by using electron beam, X ray or deep ultraviolet ray for example, and development is performed by using a suitable developer. By using the resist pattern obtained in this way as a mask, the underlaying organic polymer layer is dry etched preferably by reactive sputter etching using oxygen. The invention will further be illustrated by the following nonlimitative examples. In a three neck flask equipped with a thermometer, reflux condenser and a nitrogen gas feed pipe, 3.5 g of anhydrous p trimethylsilylstyrene abbreviated to SiSt refined by distillation over calcium hydride was mixed with 30 ml of benzene dehydrated by metallic sodium and 0.014 g 0.3 mole of SiSt of benzoyl peroxide BPO and subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Upon completion of the reaction, the reaction liquid was poured into a large volume of petroleum ether to precipitate a polymer in the form of white powder. After filtration the powder was again dissolved in 50 ml of benzene, and the solution was poured into petroleum ether to precipitate the refined polymer, which was separated from the solvent and dried for 8 hr at 50 C under reduced pressure. The dried polymer weighed 3.0 g. By analysis this polymer was confirmed to be poly p trimethylsilylstyrene abbreviated to PSiSt of the structure of formula 1 , having a weight average molecular weight M A resist material solution was prepared by dissolving 0.46 g of PSiSt obtained by the above described process in 10 ml of xylene to obtain 5 wt solution with sufficient stirring, followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. This solution was applied to a silicon substrate and dried in vacuum at room temperature to form a PSiSt film having a thickness of about 0.2 micrometers. The film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas to measure the rate of decrease in the film thickness. The etching conditions were 4 sccm, 1.06 Pa 8 mTorr and 120 W 0.096 W cm² . In the drawing figure, the curve S 1 represents the result of this test. As can be seen, the etch rate was very low. During an initial phase of the etching operation the etch rate became gradually and slightly lower as the time elapsed, but after the lapse of about 5 min from the start of etching the film thickness became almost invariable, meaning that the film was etched no more. In the initial period of about 5 min the film thickness decreased by only 0.022 micrometers. In the PSiSt film etched by reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas, the number of trimethysilyl groups was calculated to be 1 10¹⁶ per 1 cm². When an about 1.8 micrometers film of a novolak resin tradename AZ 1350J of Shipley Co. this resin will be referred to as the novolak resin was etched under the same etching conditions, the rate of decrease in the film thickness was as represented by the curve P in the drawing figure. In the case the film thickness continued to decrease in proportion to the etching time with no change in the rate of decrease, and in 22 min the amount of etch reached 1.5 micrometers. Accordingly it is generally preferred that a PSiSt film in which the number of trimethylsilyl groups is at least 1 10¹⁶ per 1 cm² be used as a mask for etching of a layer of the novolak resin. Next, the sensitivity and resolving power of PSiSt as a resist material in electron beam lithography were examined by the following test method. The aformentioned solution of PSiSt was applied by spinning to a silicon substrate and dried for 30 min in vacuum at room temperature to form a PSiSt film having a thickness of 0.138 micrometers. Then patterns of various line and space widths were delineated on the PSiSt film by means of an electron beam apparatus by varying the dose of irradiation, and development was performed by 1 min treatment with a mixed solution of tetrahydrofuran and ethanol in the proportion of 35 65 by volume, followed by rinsing with isopropyl alcohol for 30 sec. After drying the thickness of the film in the irradiated areas was measured by using a Taylor Hobson Tally Step instrument. The resolving capability of the tested resist material was determined by observation of the respective patterns formed in the exposed and developed film with optical microscope and scanning electron microscope. It was found that the dose of irradiation sufficient to cause gelation of the PSiSt film will be represented by D To examine actual performance of PSiSt as a resist, the novolak resin was applied by spinning to a silicon substrate to form a 1.5 micrometers thick film, followed by prebaking at 250 for 1 hr, and then the aforementioned solution of PSiSt was applied by spinning onto the novolak resin film and dried. A submicron pattern was formed in the PSiSt film by the above described exposure and development process. After the development treatment the thickness of the PSiSt film was 0.10 micrometers, and the number of trimethylsilyl groups in the film was calculated to be 4.5 10¹⁶ cm². With the patterned PSiSt film as a mask the novolak resin film was etched for 25 min by reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas under the conditions of 1.06 Pa 8 mTorr , 4 sccm standard cubic centimeters per minute and 120 W. As a result, a submicron pattern initially delineated in the PSiSt film with irradiation dose of 400 microcoulombs cm² was transferred with high resolution into the 1.5 micrometers film of the novolak resin. Therefore, the thickness of the PSiSt film was proved to have been sufficient to provide a mask for etching 1.5 micrometers thickness of the novolak resin. The submicron pattern thus formed in the novolak resin film was high in aspect ratio and sufficient in the masking effect for subsequent etching of the substrate. In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, 3.5 g 0.02 moles of SiSt was mixed with 0.8 g 0.005 moles of anhydrous chloromethystyrene abbreviated to CMS , 30 ml of dehydrated benzene and 0.0087 g 0.3 mole of the total of SISt and CMS of BPO, and the mixture was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Upon completion of the reaction the reaction solution was poured into a large volume of petroleum ether to precipitate a polymer in the form of white powder. This polymer was refined by the method described in Example 1. By analysis this polymer was confirmed to be a copolymer of SiSt with CMS at the copolymerization ratio of 9 1 by mole. This copolymer, i.e. poly p trimethylsilylstyrene chloromethylstyrene of the structure of formula 2 , will be referred to as P SiSt₉₀ CM₁₀ . The weight average molecular weight M A resist material solution was prepared by dissolving 0.8 g of P SiSt₉₀ CMS₁₀ in 17.5 ml of xylene, followed by filtration with 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a P SiSt₉₀ CMS₁₀ film having a thickness of about 0.2 micrometers was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas under the same conditions as in Example 1. In this case the rate of decrease in the film thickness was as represented by the curve S 2 in the drawing figure. After the lapse of about 5 min from the start of etching, the film became almost invariable in its thickness and no longer underwent etching. Until then, the film thickness decreased by only 0.032 micrometers. In the etched film the number of trimethylsilyl groups was calculated to be 1.2 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin described in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of P SiSt₉₀ CMS₁₀ can be used as a mask for etching of a layer of the novolak resin. The aforementioned solution of P SiSt₉₀ CMS₁₀ was applied by spinning to a silicon substrate and dried for 30 min in vacuum at room temperature to form a copolymer film having a thickness of 0.185 micrometers. Then patterns of various line and space widths were delineated on the copolymer film by electron beam irradiation, and development was preferred by 1 min treatment with a mixed solution of isoamyl acetate and ethyl Cellosolve in the proportion of 1 4 by volume, followed by rinsing with ethanol for 30 sec. Then the thickness, sensitivity and resolving capability of the copolymer film were examined by the same methods as in Example 1. It is found that D In the next experiment the novolak resin was applied by spinning to a silicon substrate to form a 1.5 micrometers thick film, followed by prebaking at 250 C for 1 hr, and then the aforementioned solution of P SiSt₉₀ CMS₁₀ was spun onto the novolak resin film and dried. A submicron pattern was formed in the copolymer film by the above described exposure and development process. After the development treatment the thickness of the copolymer film was 0.10 micrometers, and the number of trimethylsilyl groups in the film was calculated to be 3.7 10¹⁶ cm². With the patterned copolymer film as a mask the novolak resin was subjected to reactive sputter etching under the same conditions as in Example 1. As a result, a submicron pattern initially formed in the copolymer film with irradiation dose of 14 microcoulombs cm² was transferred into the 1.5 micrometers film of the novolak resin. Therefore, the thickness of the copolymer film was proved to have been sufficient to provide a mask for etching 1.5 micrometers thickness of the novolak resin. In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, 3.5 g 0.02 moles of SiSt was mixed with 4.3 g 0.03 moles of anhydrous glycidyl methacrylate GMA , 50 ml of dehydrated benzene and 0.036 g 0.03 mole of the total of SiSt and GMA of BPO, and the mixture was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Upon completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was poured into a large volume of petroleum ether to precipitate a polymer in powder form. This polymer was refined by the method described in Example 1. By analysis M A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.4 g of P SiSt₄₀ GMA₆₀ in 28 ml of methyl cellosolve acetate to obtain 8 wt solution with sufficient stirring, followed by filtration with 0.2 micrometers filters. By using this solution a P SiSt₄₀ GMA₆₀ film having a thickness of about 0.45 micrometers was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas under the same conditions as in Example 1. In this case the rate of decrease in the film thickness was as represented by the curve S 3 in the drawing figure. In about 30 min the film thickness decreased by 0.17 micrometers, and therefore the copolymer film was no longer etched. In this etched film the number of trimethylsilyl groups was calculated to be 3 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin described in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of P SiSt₄₀ GMA₆₀ can be used as a mask for etching of the novolak resin. The aforementioned solution of was applied by spinning to a silicon substrate and prebaked in nitrogen gas stream at 80 C for 30 min to form a copolymer film having a thickness of 0.23 micrometer. Then patterns of various line and space width were delineated on the copolymer film by electron beam irradiation, and development was performed by 1 min treatment with a mixed solution of trichoroethylene and acetone in the proportion of 3 1 by volume, followed by rinsing with ethanol for 30 sec. Then the thickness, sensitivity and resolving capability of the copolymer film were examined by the same methods as in Example 1. It was found that D In the next experiment, a submicron pattern formed in a P SiSt₄₀ GMA₆₀ film with electron beam irradiation dose of 20 microcoulombs cm² was transferred into an underlying 1.5 micrometers film of the novolak resin by reactive sputter etching carried out under the same conditions as in Example 1. After the development treatment the thickness of the patterned copolymer film was 0.20 micrometers, and the number of trimethylsilyl groups in the film was calculated to be 3.6 10¹⁶ cm². The thickness of the copolymer film was proved to have been sufficient for etching 1.5 micrometers thickness of the novolak resin. In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, 0.35 g 0.002 moles of SiSt was mixed with 8.6 g 0.06 moles of GMA, 50 ml of dehydrated benzene and 0.045 g 0.3 mole of the total of SiSt and GMA of BPO, and the mixture was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Upon completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was poured into a large volume of petroleum ether to precipitate a polymer in powder form. This polymer was refined by the method described in Example 1. By analysis, M A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.4 g of the obtained copolymer, which will be referred to as P SiSt₃ GMA₉₇ , in 28 ml of methyl Cellosolve acetate to obtain 8 wt solution with sufficient stirring, followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a P SiSt₃ GMA₉₇ film having a thickness of about 0.5 micrometers was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas under the same conditions as in Example 1. In this case the rate of decrease in the film thickness was as represented by the curve R in the drawing figure. The etch rate was considerably higher than in the case of P SiSt₄₀ GMA₆₀ of Example 3. In 5 min the 0.5 micrometers thick polymer film was completely etched without exhibiting a decrease in the etch rate. In this copolymer film the number of trimethylsilyl groups was calculated to be 0.8 10¹⁶ cm². From the result of this experiment it is understood that this polymer film in which the number of trimethylsilyl groups was less than 10¹⁶ cm² is insufficient in its resistance to dry etching using oxygen to serve as a mask for etching of an underlying organic layer such as a novolak resin layer. In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, 7.3 g 0.03 moles of a hydrous diallyl phthalate abbreviated to DAP was mixed with 3.4 g 0.03 moles of trimethylallysilane abbreviated to TMASi , 10 ml of dehydrated benzene and 0.51 g 3 mole of the total of DAP and TMASi of BPO, and the mixture was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Upon completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was poured into a large volume of methanol to precipitate a polymer in the form of white powder. The powder was separated from the solution and dried for 8 hr at 50 C under reduced pressure to obtain 7.3 g of dry polymer. By analysis, M In formula 4 the symbol X represents a unit structure of a cyclic polymer, which is most probably either of the following two formulae. A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.0 g of the obtained copolymer, which will be referred to as P DAP₇₀ TMASi₃₀ , in 20 ml of methyl cellosolve acetate to obtain 9.1 wt solution with sufficient stirring, followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a P DAP₇₀ TMASi₃₀ film was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 15 min the film thickness decreased by 0.12 micrometers, but thereafter the film thickness remained almost invariable. The number of trimethylsilyl groups in this etched film was calculated to be 1.3 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin mentioned in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of P DAP₇₀ TMASi₃₀ can be used as a mask for etching of the novolak resin. The aforementioned solution of was applied by spinning to a silicon substrate and dried for 30 min in vacuum at room temperature to form a copolymer film having a thickness of 0.233 micrometers. Then patterns of various line and space widths were delineated on the copolymer film by electron beam irradiation, and development was performed by 90 sec treatment with a mixed solution of dioxane and methyl Cellosolve in the proportion of 3 2 by volume, followed by rinsing with ethanol for 30 sec. Then the thickness, sensitivity and resolving capability of the copolymer film were examined by the same methods as in Example 1. It is found that D In the next experiment a 1.5 micrometers film of the novolak resin was formed on a silicon substrate by the method described in Example 1, and then the aforementioned solution of was spun onto the novolak resin film and dried. A submicron pattern was formed in the copolymer film by the aforementioned electron beam irradiation and development process. After the development treatment the thickness of the copolymer film was 0.14 micrometers, and the number of trimethylsilyl groups in the film was calculated to be 1.48 10¹⁶ cm². With the patterned copolymer film as a mask the novolak film was subjected to reactive sputter etching under the same conditions as in Example 1. As a result, a submicron pattern initially formed in the copolymer film with irradiation dose of 20 microcoulombs cm² was transferred into the 1.5 micrometers film of the novolak resin, so that the thickness of the copolymer film was proved to have been sufficient to provide a mask for etching 1.5 micrometers thickness of the novolak resin. In the process of preparing the copolymer of Example 4, the quantities of DAP monomer and TMASi monomer were varied to 7.3 g 0.03 moles and to 4.5 g 0.04 moles , respectively. In this case the refined and dried product weighed 7.6 g. By anaylsis, M In formula 5 the symbol X represents the unit structure described in Example 4. A solution was prepared by dissolving 1.7 g of the obtained copolymer, which will be referred to as P DAP₅₀ TMASi₅₀ , in 22 ml of methyl cellosolve acetate to obtain 7 wt solution with sufficient stirring, followed by filtration with 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a film of P DA₅₀ TMASi₅₀ was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 10 min the film thickness decreased by 0.06 micrometers, but thereafter the film thickness remained almost invariable. The number of trimethylsilyl groups in this etched film was calculated to be 1.2 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin mentioned in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of P DAP₅₀ TMASi₅₀ can be used as a mask for etching of the novolak resin. Using the same solution of P DAP₅₀ TMASi₅₀ , a copolymer film having a thickness of 0.24 micrometers was formed on a silicon substrate by the same method as in Example 4. The patterns of various line and space widths were delineated on the copolymer film by the same electron beam irradiation and development process as in Example 4, and the thickness, sensitivity and resolving capability of this copolymer film were examined by the same methods as in Example 1. It was found that D In the next experiment a 1.5 micrometers film of the novlak resin was formed on a silicon substrate by the method described in Example 1, and then the aforementioned solution of was spun onto the novolak resin film and dried. A submicron pattern was formed in the copolymer film by the aforementioned electron beam irradiation and development process. After the development treatment the thickness of the copolymer film was 0.15 micrometers, and the number of trimethylsilyl groups in the film was calculated to be 3 10¹⁶ cm². With the patterned copolymer film as a mask the novolak resin film was subjected to reactive sputter etching under the same conditions as in Example 1. As a result, a submicron pattern initially formed in the copolymer film with irradiation dose of 20 microcoulombs cm² was transferred into the 1.5 micrometers film of the novolak resin, so that the thickness of the copolymer film was proved to have been sufficient to provide a mask for etching the 1.5 micrometers thickness of the novolak resin. In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, a mixture of 7.3 g 0.03 moles of diallyl terephthalate abbreviated to DATP , 3.4 g 0.03 moles of TMASi, 10 ml of dehydrated benzene and 0.51 g 3 mole of the total of DATP and TMASi of BPO was subjected of polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Upon completion of the reaction, the reaction liquid was poured into a large volume of methanol to precipitate a polymer in powder form. The polymer was refined and dried in the same manner as in Example 4 to obtain 8.0 g of dry polymer. By analysis M In formula 6 the symbol X represents a unit structure of a cyclic polymer, which is most probably of the following two formulas. A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.0 g of the obtained copolymer, which will be referred to as P DATP₆₀ TMASi₄₀ , in 20 ml of methyl cellosolve acetate to obtain 9.1 wt solution with sufficient stirring, followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a film of P DATP₆₀ TMASi₄₀ was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 15 min the film thickness decreased by 0.10 micrometers, but thereafter the film thickness remained almost invariable. The number of trimethylsilyl groups in this etched copolymer film was calculated to be 1.5 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin mentioned in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of can be used as a mask for etching of the novolak resin. Using the same solution a film of was formed on a silicon substrate, and the sensitivity and resolving capability of the film were examined by the same methods as in Example 4. It was found that D In the next experiment a 1.0 micrometer film of the novolak resin was formed on a silicon substrate by the method described in Example 1, and then the solution of P DATP₆₀ TMASi₄₀ was spun onto the novolak resin film and dried. A submicron pattern was formed in the copolymer film by the same electron beam irradiation and development process as in Example 4 with irradiation dose of 7.0 microcoulombs cm². After the development treatment the thickness of the copolymer film was 0.02 micrometers, and the number of trimethylsilyl groups in the film was calculated to be 3.1 10¹⁶ cm². With the patterned copolymer film as a mask, the novolak resin film was subjected to reactive sputter etching in the same manner as in Example 1 to result in that the submicron pattern was transferred into the novolak resin film. Therefore, the thicknes of the copolymer film was proved to have been sufficient to provide a mask for etching 1.0 micrometer thickness of the novolak resin. In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, a mixture of 7.3 g 0.03 moles of DAP, 0.6 g 0.005 moles of TMASi, 10 ml of dehydrated benzene and 0.30 g 3 mole of the total of DAP and TMASi of BPO was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Upon completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was poured into a large volume of methanol to precipitate a polymer in powder form. The polymer was refined and dried in the same manner as in Example 4 to obtain 7.0 g of dry polymer. By analysis, M A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.0 g of the obtained copolymer, which will be referred to as P DAP₉₄ TMASi₆ , in 20 ml of methyl Cellosolve acetate, followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a film of P DAP₉₄ TMASi₆ having a thickness of 0.45 micrometers was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 5 min the copolymer film was etched to the extent of the 4.5 micrometers thickness without exhibiting a decrease in the etch rate. In this copolymer film the number of trimethylsilyl groups was calculated to be 7.5 10¹⁵ cm². From the result of the test it is understood that this copolymer film in which the number of trimethylsilyl groups was less than 10¹⁶ cm² is insufficient in its resistance to dry etching using oxygen to serve as a mask for etching of an underlying organic layer such as a novolak resin layer. In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, a mixture of 10.6 g 0.1 moles of a novolak type phenolic resin containing no photosensitive agent and 4.8 g 0.03 moles of bexamethyldisilazane was gradually heated from room temperature up to 150 C and maintained at 150 C for 3 4 hr. The reaction was terminated after confirming that the reaction system in the flask no longer emitted the odor of ammonia. The content of Si in the obtained copolymer was determined to be 6.1 by weight, and the copolymer was subjected to infrared absorption spectrum analysis. From the analytical results the structure of this copolymer was presumed to be as represented by formula 7 . A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.0 g of the obtained copolymer, namely, trimethylsilyl substituted phenolic resin which will be referred to as P PhOH₇₀ PhOSi₃₀ , and 0.5 g of 3,3 diazido biphenyl sulfone in 20 ml of cellosolve acetate to obtain 8.9 wt solution with sufficient stirring, followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a film of was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 5 min the film thickness decreased by 0.13 micrometers, but thereafter the film thickness remained almost invariable. The number of trimethylsilyl groups in this etched copolymer film was calculated to be 1.6 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin AZ 1350J mentioned in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of this copolymer can be used as a mask for etching of the novolak resin. In the next experiment a 1.0 micrometer film of the novolak resin AZ 1350J was formed on a silicon substrate by the method described in Example 1, and then the solution of P PhOH₇₀ PhOSi₃₀ was spun onto the novolak resin film and dried. A submicron pattern was formed in the copolymer film by electron beam irradiation and development, which was 1 min treatment with methyl cellosolve acetate followed by rinsing with isopropyl alcohol for 30 sec. The irradiation dose was 300 microcoulombs cm². After the development treatment the thickness of the copolymer film was 0.22 micrometers, and the number of trimethylsilyl groups in the film was calculated to be 2.8 10¹⁶ cm². Then, the submicron pattern of negative type was accurately transferred from the copolymer film into the novolak resin film by reactive sputter etching with O₂. Accordingly the thickness of the copolymer film was sufficient to provide a mask for etching 1.0 micrometer thickness of the novolak resin. The polymerization process in Example 7 was repeated by increasing the quantity of hexamethyldisilazane to 8.0 g 0.05 moles , and the obtained copolymer was subjected to chemical analysis and infrared absorption spectrum analysis. In this case the content of Si in the copolymer was 8.0 by weight, and the structure of the copolymer was presumed to be as represented by formula 8 . A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.0 g of the obtained copolymer, namely, trimethylsilyl substituted phenolic resin which will be referred to as P PhOH₆₀ PhOSi₄₀ , and 0.5 g of 3,3 diazido biphenyl sulfone in 20 ml of cellosolve acetate to obtain 8.9 wt solution , followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a film of P PhOH₆₀ PhOSi₄₀ was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 5 min the film thickness decreased by 0.10 micrometers, but thereafter the film thickness remained almost invariable. The number of trimethylsilyl groups in this etched copolymer film was calculated to be 1.7 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin AZ 1350J mentioned in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of P PhOH₆₀ PhOSi₄₀ can be used as mask for etching of the novolak resin. In the next experiment a 1.0 micrometer film of the novolak resin AZ 1350J was formed on a silicon substrate by the method described in Example 1, and then the solution of P PhOH₆₀ PhOSi₄₀ was spun onto the novolak resin film and dried. A submicron pattern was formed in the copolymer film by the electron beam irradiation and development process mentioned in Example 7. In this case the irradiation dose was 350 microcoulombs cm². After the development treatment the thickness of the copolymer film was 0.20 micrometers, and the number of trimethylsilyl groups in the film was 3.3 10¹⁶ cm². Then the submicron pattern was accurately transferred from the copolymer film into the novolak resin film by reactive sputter etching with O₂. Accordingly the thickness of the copolymer film was sufficient to provide a mask for etching 1.0 micrometer thickness of the novolak resin. In the polymerization process in Example 7, the quantity of hexamethyldisilazane was decreased to 1.2 g 0.008 moles . Consequently the content of Si in the obtained copolymer decreased to 1.6 by weight, and the structure of the obtained copolymer was presumed to be as represented by formula 7A . A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.0 g of this copolymer, which will be referred to as P PhOH₉₃ PhOSi₇ , and 0.5 g of 3,3 diazido biphenyl sulfone in 20 ml of cellosolve acetate to obtain 6.2 wt solution , followed by filtration with 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a film of P PhOH₉₃ PhOSi₇ having a thickness of 0.28 micrometers was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 2 min, the copolymer film was etched to the extent of its 0.28 micrometers thickness without exhibiting a decrease in the etch rate. In this copolymer film the number of trimethylsilyl groups was calculated to be 9.2 10¹⁵ cm². This indicates that this copolymer film in which the number of trimethylsilyl groups is less than 10¹⁶ cm² is insufficient in its resistance to dry etching using oxygen to serve as a mask for etching of an underlying organic layer such as a novolak resin layer. In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, a mixture of 3.5 g of anhydrous p triethylsilylstyrene abbreviated to ESiSt , 30 ml of dehydrated benzene and 0.014 g of BPO was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature, and a polymer formed by the reaction was refined and dried by the same methods as in Example 4. The polymer was poly p triethylsilylstyrene , which will be referred to as PESiSt, represented by formula 9 . By analysis, M A solution was prepared by dissolving 1.0 g of PESiSt in 20 ml of xylene to obtain 4.8 wt solution with sufficient stirring, followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a film of PESiSt was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 5 min the film thickness decreased by 0.032 micrometers, but thereafter the film thickness remained almost invariable. The number of triethylsilyl groups in this etched polymer film was calculated to be 1.0 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin mentioned in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of PESiSt can be used as a mask for etching of the novolak resin. The aforementioned solution of PESiSt was applied by spinning to a silicon substrate and heated in nitrogen gas stream at 100 C for 30 min to thereby form a polymer film having a thickness of 0.190 micrometers. The patterns of various line and space widths were delineated on the polymer film electron beam irradiation, and development was performed by 1 min treatment with a mixed solution of tetrahydrofuran and ethanol in the proportion of 4 1 by volume, followed by rinsing with isopropyl alcohol for 30 sec. The sensitivity and resolving capability of the polymer film were examined in the same manner as in Example 1. It was found that D In the next experiment a film of PESiSt was formed on a 1.5 micrometers film of the novolak resin, and a submicron pattern was formed in the polymer layer with irradiation dose of 380 microcoulombs cm². After the aforementioned devolopment treatment the thickness of the polymer film was 0.15 micrometers, and the number of triethylsily groups in the polymer film was 5.0 10¹⁶ cm². By reactive sputter etching with O₂, the submicron pattern was accurately transferred from the polymer film to the novolak resin film. Accordingly the thickness of the PESiSt film was sufficient to provide a mask for etching 1.5 micrometers thickness of the novolak resin. In a three neck flask having a capacity of 500 ml, 26 g 0.2 moles of 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate abbreviated to HEMA and 16 g of pyridine were dissolved in 200 ml of carbon tetrachloride. At room temperature, 107.5 g 0.2 moles of trimethylchlorosilane was slowly dropped into the solution in the flask to complete the addition of the entire amount in 30 min. During this process precipitation of hydrochloric acid salt of pyridine took place. After filtration, carbon tetrachloride in the reaction liquid was distilled out by using an evaporator, and the remaining liquid was distilled under reduced pressure to obtain 37 g of 2 trimethylsiloxyethyl methacrylate abbreviated to HEMA Si . In a 100 ml three neck flask, a mixture of 5.6 g 0.03 moles of HEMA Si, 30 ml of benzene and 0.021 g of BPO was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Thereafter benzene was distilled out by using an evaporator, and the remaining product was dried for 8 hr at 80 C under reduced pressure. Obtained as the result was 4.3 g of poly 2 trimethylsiloxyethyl methacrylate , which will be referred to as P HEMA Si , represented by formula 10 . By analysis, M A solution was prepared by dissolving 2 g of P HEMA Si in 23 ml of methyl cellosolve acetate to obtain 8 wt solution , followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a film of P HEMA Si was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 5 min the film thickness decreased by 0.039 micrometers, but thereafter the film thickness remained almost invariable. The number of trimethylsilyl groups in this etched polymer film was calculated to be 1.5 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin mentioned in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of P HEMA Si can be used as a mask for etching of the novolak resin. In the next experiment a 1.5 micrometers film of the novolak resin was formed on a silicon substrate by the method described in Example 1, and the aforementioned solution of P HEMA Si was spun onto the novolak resin film and heated on nitrogen gas stream at 80 C for 30 min to thereby form a P HEMA Si film. A submicron pattern was formed in the polymer film by electron beam irradiation and development, which was 1 min treatment with a mixed solution of butyl Cellosolve and cyclohexane in the proportion of 1 19 by volume followed by 30 sec rinsing with cyclohexane. The irradiation dose was 50 microcoulombs cm². After the development treatment the thickness of the polymer film was 0.17 micrometers, and the number of trimethylsilyl groups in the film was 6.6 10¹⁶ cm². Then the submicron pattern of positive type was accurately transferred from the P HEMA Si film into the novolak resin film by reactive sputter etching with O₂. Accordingly the thickness of the P HEMA Si film was sufficient to provide a mask for etching 1.5 micrometers thickness of the novolak resin. In a 100 ml three neck flask, a mixture of 3.7 g 0.02 moles of HEMA Si, 2.0 g 0.02 moles of methyl methacrylate abbreviated to MMA , 30 ml of benzene and 0.028 g of BPO was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. A polymer formed by the reaction was refined and dried by the methods described in Example 1 to obtain 4.0 g of dry polymer. By analysis, M A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.0 g of this copolymer, which will be referred to as P HEMASi₅₀ MMA₅₀ , in 23 ml of methyl cellosolve acetate. By using this solution a film of P HEMASi₅₀ MMA₅₀ was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 5 min the film thickness decreased by 0.045 micrometers, but thereafter the film thickness remained almost invariable. The number of trimethylsilyl groups in the etched film was calculated to be 1.2 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin mentioned in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of P HEMASi₅₀ MMA₅₀ can be used as a mask for etching of the novolak resin. In the next experiment a 1.5 micrometers film of the novolak resin was formed on a silicon substrate by the method described in Example 1, and the aforementioned solution of P HEMASi₅₀ MMA₅₀ was spun onto the novolak resin film and heated in nitrogen gas stream at 80 C for 30 min to thereby form a film of this copolymer. A submicron pattern was formed in the copolymer film by electron beam irradiation and development, which was 1 min treatment with a mixed solution of methylisobutyl ketone and cyclohexane in the proportion of 1 1 by volume followed by 30 sec rinsing with cyclohexane. The irradiation dose was 100 microcoulombs cm². After the development treatment the thickness of the copolymer film was 0.20 micrometers, and the number of trimethylsilyl groups in the copolymer film was 5.1 10¹⁶ cm². Then the submicron pattern of positive type was accurately transferred from the copolymer film to the novolak resin film by reactive sputter etching with O₂. Accordingly the thickness of the P HEMASi₅₀ MMA₅₀ film was sufficient to provide a mask for etching 1.5 micrometers thickness of the novolak resin. In the copolymerization process of Example 11, the quantity of HEMA Si was decreased to 0.37 g 0.002 moles and the quantity of BPO to 0.015 g. Obtained as the result was 1.5 g of a copolymer of HEMA Si with MMA. In this case copolymerization ratio of HEMA Si to MMA was judged to be 1 19. As to the molecular weight of this copolymer, M In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, a mixture of 4.8 g 0.02 moles of p dimethylphenylsilylstyrene abbreviated to PhSiSt , 50 ml of dehydrated bensene and 0.036 g of BPO was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Upon completion of the reaction, the reaction liquid was poured into a large volume of methanol to precipitate a polymer. This polymer was refined and dried by the methods described in Example 1 to obtain 3.2 g of dry polymer. The polymer was poly p dimethylphenylsilylstyrene , which will be referred to as PPhSiSt, represented by formula 12 . By analysis, M A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.4 g of PPhSiSt in 28 ml of methyl cellosolve acetate to obtain 8 wt solution with sufficient stirring, followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a film of PPhSiSt was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching with O₂ under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 5 min the film thickness decreased by 0.040 micrometers, but thereafter the film thickness remained almost invariable. The number of dimethylphenylsilyl groups in this etched film was calculated to be 1.2 10¹⁶ cm². In view of the etch rate of the novolak resin mentioned in Example 1, it is understood that such a film of PPhSiSt can be used as a mask for etching of the novolak resin. In the next experiment a 1.5 micrometers film of the novolak resin was formed on a silicon substrate by the method described in Example 1, and the aforementioned solution of PPhSiSt was spun onto the novolak resin film and heated in nitrogen gas stream at 100 C for 30 min to thereby form a film of the polymer. A submicron pattern was formed in the PPhSiSt film by electron beam irradiation and development, which was 1 min treatment with a mixed solution of methylethyl ketone and isopropyl alcohol in the proportion of 5 1 by volume followed by 30 sec rinsing with isopropyl alcohol. The irradiation dose was 500 micrometers cm². After the development treatment the thickness of the polymer film was 0.18 micrometers, and the number of dimethylphenylsilyl groups in the polymer film was calculated to be 5.5 10¹⁶ cm². Then the submicron pattern was accurately transferred from the PPhSiSt film into the novolak resin film by reactive sputter etching with O₂. Accordingly the thickness of the PPhSiSt film was sufficient to provide a mask for etching 1.5 micrometers thickness of the novolak resin. In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, a mixture of 1.4 g 0.006 moles of PhSiSt, 7.0 g 0.05 moles of GMA, 50 ml of dehydrated benzene and 0.041 g of BPO was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Upon completion of the reaction, the reaction liquid was poured into a large volume of petroleum ether to precipitate a polymer. This polymer was refined and dried by the methods mentioned in Example 4. By analysis, M A solution was prepared by dissolving 2.4 g of the PhSiSt GMA copolymer in 28 ml of methyl cellosolve acetate to obtain 8 wt solution followed by filtration with a 0.2 micrometers filter. By using this solution a film of the copolymer having a thickness of 0.2 micrometers was formed on a silicon substrate, and the film was subjected to reactive sputter etching under the same conditions as in Example 1. In 5 min, the copolymer film was etched to the extent of its 0.2 micrometers thickness without exhibiting a decrease in the etch rate. The number of dimethylphenylsilyl groups in this copolymer film was calculated to be 9.5 10¹⁵ cm². Therefore, it is understood that this copolymer film in which the number of dimethylphenylsilyl groups is less than 10¹⁵ cm² is insufficient in its resistance to dry etching using oxygen to serve as a mask for etching of an underlying organic polymer layer such as a novolak resin layer. In the reactor mentioned in Example 1, a mixture of 5.0 g 0.02 moles of 3 trimethoxysilylpropyl methacrylate abbreviated to SiMA , 2.8 g 0.02 moles of GMA refined by distillation over calcium hydride, 50 ml of dehydrated benzene and 0.028 g of BPO was subjected to polymerization reaction for 8 hr at a reflux temperature. Upon completion of the reaction, the reaction liquid was poured into a large volume of petroleum ether to precipitate a polymer in the form of white powder, and the polymer was refined and dried by same methods as in Example 1 to obtain 7.3 g of dry polymer. Analysis of this polymer gave the following values. Infrared Absorption Spectrum KBr Magnetic Resonance Spectrum CDC1₃, TMS Molecular Weight and Molecular Weight Distribution Content of Si 7.30 by weight. From these analytical values, the polymer was confirmed to be a copolymer of SiMA having the structure represented by formula 13 . This copolymer will be referred to as P SiMA₅₀ GMA₅₀ . A solution was prepared by dissolving 1.0 g of P SiMA₅₀ GMA₅₀ in 19 ml of methyl cellosolve acetate to obtain 5 wt solution with sufficient stirring, followed by filtration with 0.2 micrometers filter. The novolak resin AZ 1350J was applied by spinning to a silicon substrate and heated at 200 C for 1 hr to thereby form a 1.5 micrometers film. After cooling of the substrate to room temperature the solution of P SiMA₅₀ GMA₅₀ was spun onto the novolak resin film and heated in nitrogen gas stream at 80 C for 30 min to thereby form a P SiMA₅₀ GMA₅₀ film of which the thickness was estimated to be 0.22 micrometers. A submicron pattern was formed in the copolymer film by electron beam irradiation with irradiation dose of 0.4 micrometers cm² and development, which was performed by 1 min treatment with a mixed solution of trichioroethylene and acetone in the proportion of 3 1 by volume followed by 30 sec rinsing with ethanol. Then the submicron pattern was accurately transferred from the copolymer film into the novolak resin film by reactive sputter etching with O₂ gas which was carried out for 25 min under the same conditions as in Example 1.