# Apparatus for combining a video signal with graphics and text from a computer.

## Abstract
Apparatus for combining video signals from a video source, such as video disc player 20 , with computer generated graphics text output on a single display, for overlaying the two. The computer generated video is pro vided in RGB format 52 the other video is converted 80 to RGB format if not already in that form and the two sets of RGB signals are provided to a switch 90 . The switch 90 i.e., multiplexer selects which one of the two RGB signal sets to display this selection is made separately for each pixel. In one embodiment, the color of the computer generated signals 52 controls the switch s selection of source. A master slave synchronization system 100 main tains registration between the two sets of RGB signals. When the video source is unstable as, for example, with a video disc player , a master sync generator 130 138 provides a house coarse synchronization signal 144 to the video disc player. For stable sources, this is unnecessary. The slave synchronization generator 160 270 locks the video switch 90 , display 40 and computer video generator 50 to the timing of the video image source such as video disc player . Thus, the rest of the system tracks the jitter of the video source 20 . When the video disc player 201 is scanning or is being spun up or down, the slave sync generator 160 270 locks onto the house sync signal 148 of the master sync generator, instead of the video disk player s output, to avoid rolling and tearing of the display.