# Oxytetracycline composition and process for preparing an oxytetracycline composition.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a process for preparing an oxytet racycline composition, consisting alkaline earth metal com plexes of oxytetracycline in a mixture of water, water miscible organic solvent and adjuvants. Said compositions are obtained by incorporating 10 30 parts by weight of oxytetracycline in the form of the base or an acid addition salt and sufficient alka line earth metal ions to form a complex with the oxytetra cycline, into 30 60 parts by volume of water, adding desired adjuvants and making up the mixture with N methylpyrrolidone up to a volume of 100 parts by volume. Preferably 20 25 parts by weight of oxytetracycline in the form of the base or an acid addition salt are used and prefer ably magnesium oxide is used as source of alkaline earth metal ions. As one of the adjuvants preferably 2.5 10 parts by weight of polyvinylpyrrolidone are used.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An oxytetracycline composition, comprising 10 30 parts by weight of oxytetracycline in the form of a complex with alkaline earth metal ions, 30 60 parts by volume of water, desired adjuvants, balance N methylpyrrolidone, said composition having a pH between 6.0 and 9.5. 2. Process for preparing an oxytetracycline compositioh, wherein a solution is formed of alkaline earth metal complexes of oxytetracycline in a mixture of water, water miscible organic solvent and adjuvants with a pH between 6.0 and 9.5, characterized in that, 10 30 parts by weight of oxytetracycline in the form of the base, or an acid addition salt and sufficient alkaline earth metal ions to form a complex with the oxytetracycline, are incorporated into 30 60 parts by volume of water, the desired adjuvants are added and the mixture is made up with N methylpyrrolidone up to a volume of 100 parts by volume. 3. Composition or process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that, 20 25 parts by weight of oxytetracycline in the form of the base or an acid addition salt are used. 4. Composition or process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that magnesium oxide is used as source of alkaline earth metal ions. 5. Composition or process according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that, as one of the adjuvants polyvinylpyrrolidone is used in an amount of 2.5 10 parts by weight.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING AN OXYTETRACYCLINE COMPOSITIONThe invention relates to a process for preparing an oxytetracycline composition, wherein a solution is formed of alkaline earth metal complexes of oxytetracycline in a mixture of water, watermiscible organic solvent and adjuvants with a pH between 6.0 and 9.5 and to oxytetracycline compositions which can be obtained by said process.Such a process is known from Dutch patent specification 141 086 which describes the preparation of oxytetracycline compositions which comprise 0.1 15 parts by weight oxytetracycline, in the form of an alkaline earth metal complex, per 100 vol. parts of solution here and also further in the specification and in the claims the ratio of parts by weight and vol. parts is g ml , by dissolving alkaline earth metal compounds of oxytetracycline in a mixture of water and of glycerol formal. The average pH of said solutions is in practice between 8 and 9.In Dutch patent application 7713761 a process is described for preparing oxytetracycline compositions which on average have a somewhat lower pH, wherein an aqueous solution is formed with at most 15 by weight of oxytetracycline, sufficient alkaline earth metal ions to form a complex with the oxytetracycline, 4 68 by weight of polyvinyl pyrrolidone as stabilizer and 15 408 by weight of an aliphatic aside as organic solvent and the pH is adjusted at 5.0 7.5. With those compositions a solution of an alkaline earth metal complex of oxytetracycline, is formed as oxytetracycline base and the acid addition salts thereof per se are hard to dissolve and moreover are not stable in aqueous solution.All these known processes have in common, that the oxytetracycline content of the prepared solutions is not more than 15 parts by weight per 100 vol. parts solution.rFrom U.S. patent specification 4 018 889 oxytetracyline compositions are knawn, with contents of oxytetracycline or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addiction salts thereof, between 1 and 40 by weight, the solvent of which comprising a mixture of water and 10 50 by weight of 2 pyrrolidone, which compositions have as main indication, the application as parenteral injection solution, and as sub indication, composition for topical use.It was now found, that completely stable oxytetracycline compositions can be prepared, of which the oxytetracycline content can vary between 10 and 30 parts by weight oxytetracycline per 100 parts by volume of solution, which compositions, besides for normal parenteral use, are particularly suitable for intravenous and intraperitoneal use and moreover provide an extremely high oxytetracycline blood serum level and very little tissue irritation, if, with the preparation of the compositions, as organic solventN methylpyrrolidone is used.It is surprising that this is possible commercial compositions of the type known from U.S. patent specification 4 018 889 just have a contra indication against intravenous administration.Intraperitoneal injection is not mentioned in U.S. patent specification 4 018 889. This way of injecting has advantages in case of e.g. peritonitis the oxytetracycline is then quickly at the place where it should be.The preferred process according to the invention is characterized in that 10 30 parts by weight of oxytetracycline in the form of the base, or an acid addition salt and sufficient alkaline earth metal ions to form a complex with the oxytetracycline are incorporated into 30 60 parts by volume of water, the desired adjuvants are added and the mixture is made up with N methylpyrrolidone up to a volume of 100 parts by volume.We remark that the use of concentrated solutions of N methylpyrrolidone as solvent for pharmaceutical compositions is already generally described in Dutch patent specification 89788. However oxytetracycline is not mentioned there and it could not be expected or predicted that N methylpyrrolidone would allow the preparation of oxytetracycline compositions with a high concentration, which have said favourable properties.The compositions according to the invention can also consist of a syrup for oral administration.Preferably, according to the invention one prepares compositions which comprise 20 25 parts by weight of oxytetracycline per 100 parts by volume of solution said compositions allow an especially favourable decrease of the amount to be administered for a certain dosage of oxytetracycline.The alkaline earth metal complex of oxytetracycline is formed in situ in the process according to the invention, in that oxytetracycline in the form of the free base, in particular the dihydrate of the free base, or of an acid addition salt, in particular the hydrochloride and sufficient alkaline earth metal ions to form a complex with the oxytetracycline are incorporated into water.The alkaline earth metal ions by which the complex is formed, are preferably magnesium ions, as with magnesium ions most stable complexes are formed.As source of magnesium ions every magnesium compound can be used, e.g. magnesium chloride or magnesium oxide, but preferably magnesium oxide is used, as herewith no foreign anions are brought in the solution.As adjuvants, in the first place the current antioxidants are used, like sodium metabisulphite, sodium sulphite or.sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate said antioxidants are incorporated into the solution in a slight amount e.g. in an amount of 0.1 1.0 parts by weight on 100 parts by vol. of solution and promote the shelf life of the solution.In the second place as adjuvant an agent is added to adjust the pH of the solution at the desired value.Suitable agents for adjusting the pH are physiologically innocuous inorganic or organic bases, like sodium hydroxide, ammonia, monoethanolamine, ethylene diamine.The compositions which are prepared by using said components have an excellent stability and especially the compositions for intravenous and intraperitoneal administration provide a favourable oxytetracycline level in the blood serum of pigs and cattle.However, preferably a third adjuvant is incorporated into the compositions, to wit polyvinylpyrrolidone in an amount of 2.5 10 parts by weight, calculated on 100 parts by volume of the solution.Indeed this result in an increase of the viscosity, but the advantage is that the injection solution when injected gives less tissue irritation and is tolerated better.As remarked above also according to Dutch patent application 7713761 a slight percentage of polyvinylpyrrolidone is used as stabilizer in the compositions described there.In the process according to the invention howeverpolyvinyl pyrrolidone is not used as stabilizer.In Dutch patent specification 134 511 the preparation of oxytetracycline compositions for parenteral administration is described, wherein alkaline earth metal complexes of oxytetracycline are incorporated into a mixture of water and polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP , the pH of which is adjusted at 8.0 9.5. The compositions in question do not comprise a water miscible organic solvent and comprise 7.5 25 parts by weight of PVP on 100 ml of the composition. It appeared however, that oxytetracycline compositions with 20 oxytetracycline, if they comprisePVP in amounts of more than 10 parts by weight on 100 ml of composition, have such a viscosity that they cannot be parenterally administered anymore.The polyvinylpyrrolidone which is incorporated into the compositions according to the invention has a molecular weight between 1000 and 60000. Preferably polyvinylpyrrolidone with a molecular weight between 2500 and 15000 is used, as this has the best tissue protecting activity. Polyvinylpyrrolidone with such a molecular weight is also used in a 3.5 4.5 solution in water as substitute for blood plasma. Rompp, Chemie Lexikon, volume III, 53 Ed. Stuttgart 1962 .The invention is elucidated by the following examples.Example IIn 45 ml distilled, sterile and pyrogen free water water for injections 0.5 g of sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate were dissolved.Subsequently 1.7 g of magnesium oxide were added while stirring and stirring was continuted until a homogenous suspension was formed, whereafter 21.6 g of oxytetracycline dihydrate were added.With monoethanolamine the pH of the mixture was brought at 8.5 about 1.3 ml monoethanol amine and thereafter the mixture was made up with N methylpyrrolidone up to a volume of 100,ml. This resulted in a stable solution with a pH of 8.5 and a viscosity of 20 cp, which comprised 200 mg oxytetracycline per ml. Said solution was sterilized by filtering and filled up in ampoules.In order to have the dissolution of the oxytetracycline proceed faster, it is favourable to add first a portion of the total required amount of N methylpyrrolidone to the water and thereafter to incorporate all other components into said mixture. This is elucidated in example II.Example II 45 ml of distilled, sterile and pyrogen free water were mixed withN methylpyrrolidone up toatotalvolume of 80 ml. In said mixture 0.5 g of sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate were dissolved, whereafter during stirring 1.7 magnesium oxide were added and stirring was continued until a homogenous suspension was obtained.21.6 g of oxytetracycline dihydrate were added to said suspension, whereafter the pH of the mixture, was brought at 8.0 with monoethanolamine. After the mixture became clear the pH was brought at 8.5 with monoethanolamine and thereafter the mixture was made up with N methylpyrrolidone to a volume of 100 ml.Example IIIThe process of example I or II was repeated, while the oxytetracycline dihydrate was replaced by oxytetracycline hydrochloride and the amounts of magnesium oxide and monoethanolamine were adapted.The amounts of the components which were used and the properties of the compositions are summarized in the table. Also this solution was completely stable.Example IV The process of example I or II was repeated, while also an amount of polyvinylpyrrolidone with a molecular weight of 11500 was incorporated.The amounts af the components and the properties of the composition are mentioned in the table. Also this solution was completely stable.Example VExample III was repeated, while also an amount of polyvinylpyrrolidone having a molecular weight of 2500 was incorporated.The amounts of the components and the properties of the composition are mentioned in the table. Also this solution was completely stable. Example III Example IV Example V oxytetracycline tetra 21.6 hydrate g oxytetracyclineHCl g 22 22MgO g 2.5 1.7 2.5 water for injections ml 45 45 45 sodium formal dehydesulfoxylate g 0.5 0.5 0.5PVP with MG 11500 5PVP with MG 2500 G 5 monoethanolamine until pH 8.5 until pH 8.5 until pH 8.5 ml used 1.6 1.3 1.6 N methylpyrrolidone ad 100 ml added added added pH 8.5 8.5 8.5 viscosity cp 40 30 30Example VIA number of test animals cows, resp. pigs were intramusculary injected with the composition according to example IV. The dosage was 20 mg oxytetracycline kg body weight.One worked as follows Test animals 10 pigs with an average weight of 25 kg the pigs were fed with antibiotics free feed during one month before the test 5 yearlings with a weight estimated at 250 kg the yearlings were stabled during the expirement.AdministrationThe compositions were administered intramusculary, in one injection with the pigs behind the left ear, with the cows in the left part of the neck.Tapping bloodThe blood was tapped with the aid of a vacutainer with the pigs from the a. carotis, with the yearlings from the v. jugularis.Blood samples were taken just before the injection blank and with the pigs 1, 4, 9, 24, 48 and 72 hours after injection with the yearlings 1 2, 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours after injection.After being tapped the blood was centrifuged as soon as possible and the serum was kept in a freezer at 200C until the analysis.The oxytetracycline content was determined microbiologically with the aid of Bacillus cereus ver. mycoides ATCC 11778. The culture medium used was Standard Nahragar Merck with 0.28 KH2P04 pH 6.0 the oxytetracycline standard was made with blank sera of two species of animals.The results are indicated in tables A and B and are graphically shown in the figure. Table AOxytetracycline content in pg ml in the serum of pigs. Hours after treatmentPig Composition 0 1 4 9 24 48 72 421 Ex. IV 3.75 4.2 3.3 0.94 0.24 0.09 422 Ex. IV 2.40 3.5 1.7 0.76 0.15 40.09 423 Ex. IV 2.6 4.3 2.5 0.86 0.28 0.14 424 Ex. IV 2.5 3.8 2.0 0.70 0.18 0.12 426 Ex. IV 3.9 4.9 2.5 0.82 0.22 0.11 428 Ex. IV 2.5 3.5 2.6 0.96 0.44 0.22 429 Ex. IV 3.6 3.0 2.0 0.86 0.11 431 Ex. IV 3.0 3.2 2.6 0.74 0.26 0.16 432 Ex. IV 4.2 2.8 2.3 1.2 0.32 0.13 434 Ex. IV 2.4 2.5 1.7 0.74 0.15 40.09 Av. Ex. IV 3.1 3.6 2.3 0.9 0.24 0.1Table BOxytratacycline content in rg ml in the serum of cows. Hours after treatmentCow Composition 0 1 2 1 2 4 8 12 24 48 72 1 Ex. IV 0.3 0.6 1.3 3.2 3.6 4.8 3.9 1.6 0.3 2 Ex. IV 0.6 1.4 1.9 3.0 3.6 4.8 3.9 1.2 0.2 3 Ex. IV 2.8 2.7 3.0 4.8 5.1 6.6 5.5 1.4 0.2 4 Ex. IV 1.1 1.4 4.2 3.6 4.5 5.7 5.0 0.94 0.1 8 Ex. IV 0.6 0.9 0.7 3.3 2.7 3.3 3.6 0.71 0.1Av. Ex. IV 1.1 1.4 2.2 3.6 3.9 5.0 4.4 1.2 0.2 From these data and the graph one can see that the compositions according to the invention give an excellent oxytetracycline level in blood serum, which also after 48 h meets the required condition at least 1 ug ml . Example VIIA calf, 1 month old, was intravenously injected in the vena jugularis with 2.5 ml of the composition according to example V 500 mg oxytetracycline . The calf did not show any visible reaction, the breathing remained normal and the pulse 80 per min remained unaltered. A cow with a weight of 500 kg was slowly intravenously injected in the vena jugularis, with 10 ml of the composition according to example V. The cow did not show any externally visible reaction pulse and breathing remained unaltered.Such an injection wherein coincidentally paravenous injection took place, provided a temporary oedema which disappeared quickly.From these tests it appears that the compositions are suitable for intravenous injection.Example VIIITo 9 cows of which 4 suffered from peritonitis and the others from bronchitis or bronchopnoemonia, the composition according to example IV was administered intraperitoneally in an amount of 20 mg oxytetracycline kg body weight 10 ml solution per 100 kg body weight .The cows did not show any pain reaction after the injection and neither swelling. The injection resulted in a clear improvement of the symptoms of disease in all cases.