# Removal of sulphur contaminant from ammonia.

## Abstract
Gaseous ammonia contaminated with sulphur, which may be in the form of hydrogen sulphide, mercaptans, sul phides or disulphides, produced during the processing of, for exemple, crude hydrocarbon oils or shale oil, or of coal or lignite, can be desulphurized by contacting the ammonia with a zinc oxide bed over an extended period of time and preferably at a temperature in the range from 500 to 850 F 260 454 C .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of removing sulphur contaminant from ammonia, which comprises contacting the ammonia with zinc oxide to remove the sulphur. 2. A method according to Claim 1, wherein the contacting is conducted at from 500 to 850 0F 260 4540C . 3. A method according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the contacting is conducted at a pressure of from 5 to 1000 psig 34.5 6895kPa . 4. A method according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the contacting is conducted using a space velocity of from 200 to 2000 hours 1. 5. A method according to Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein the sulphur contaminated ammonia is generated during the processing of crude hydrocarbon oils or shale oil, or in the processing of coal or lignite to form liquid or gaseous fuels.

## Description
Removal of sulphur contaminant from ammonia This invention relates to a method of treating ammonia contaminated with sulphur in order to remove therefrom the sulphur contaminant. The term sulphur contaminant is used herein as including hydrogen sulphide H2S mercaptans e.g. R1SH wherein R1 is alkyl of 1 to 8 carbons organic sulphides e.g. R1SR2 wherein R1 and R2 are independently alkyl of 1 to 8 carbons and disulphides e.g. R1SSR2 wherein R1 and R2 are independently alkyl of 1 to 8 carbons . The term alkyl includes both straight and branched chain alkyl groups. Ammonia and hydrogen sulphide are produced during the processing of crude hydrocarbon oils and shale oil, and in the processing of coal and lignite to form liquid or gaseous fuels. The hydrogen sulphide is usually converted to elemental sulphur by the Claus process, and the by product ammonia is often burned to nitrogen in the Claus furnace. However, the burning of ammonia to nitrogen not only involves the destruction of a valuable material, but can also cause operating difficulties in the Claus furnace. Destruction of the ammonia by combustion outside a Claus furnace may be impractical as levels of nitrous oxide which exceed the U.S.Environmental Protection Agency s standards for this pollutant may be generated. Ammonia can be recovered from effluent streams by an ammonia recovery process such as described in U.S.Patents Nos. 3,335,071 and 3,600,283. Purification of this by product ammonia has been carried out by contacting the ammonia vapour stream with an aqueous ammonia stream as described in U.S. Patent No.3,383,173. However, U.S. Patent No. 3,383,173 points out that acid gases such as H2S cannot be completely removed by this process, although the H2S content may be reduced to below 100 wt. ppm by the process. In addition, it has been found that the by product ammonia even after treatment by the process described in U.S. Patent No. 3,383,173 often contains from 10 to 60 ppm of sulphur in the form of organic sulphur compounds containing up to eight or more carbon atoms per sulphur atom. These organic sulphur compounds have unpleasant odours which are detectable at extremely low concentrations. In some uses, for example the production of ammonium salts such as the nitrate, sulphate, or phosphate for fertilizer, the ammonia is converted to non volatile compounds which are free of ammonia odour, but the organic sulphide compounds remain and result in pollution problems. In order to make the by product ammonia acceptable for general use, there is a need to remove the sulphur contamination to a very low level, preferably below 1 wt. ppm of sulphur. Zinc oxide has previously been used to reduce the level of sulphur contamination in natural gas and hydrogen as described in Hydrocarbon Processing, pp.126 128, January 1971 and Encyclopedia of ChemicalProcessing and Design, Marcel Dekker, Inc., Volume III, pp. 264 267 1977 . However, unlike hydrogen and hydrocarbons, which are relatively unreactive with Zn , ammonia has a high heat of ammination with Zn 2, reacting to produce complexes such as the tetraamonia zinc complex NH Zn 2 as described in the Journal of the Chemical 34 Society, pp. 2023 2027 1952 . We have nevertheless now found that, in spite of its tendency to complex with ammonia, zinc oxide is surprisingly effective in removing sulphur contaminant from ammonia. Thus in accordance with the invention, there is provided a method of removing sulphur contaminant from ammonia, which comprises contacting the ammonia with zinc oxide to remove the sulphur. Generally a bed of zinc oxide catalyst is employed. In part, due to its greater efficiency over an extended period of time in removing sulphur contaminant from ammonia, the method is preferably operated at a temperature in the range from 500 to 8500F 260 4540C .Most preferably, the method is conducted at from 600 to 0 0 850 F 316 454 C . The contacting is generally conducted at a pressure of from atmospheric pressure to 3000 psig 20685 kPa . Preferably the method is conducted at a pressure of from 5 to 1000 psig 34.5 6895kPa , and most preferably from 30 150 psig 206.85 1034.25 kPa . The contacting is generally effected at space velocities of 100 to 3000 hours 1, preferably 200 to 2000 hours 1 and most preferably 300 to 1500 hours 1. The term space velocity as used herein refers to the ratio Volume of ammonia per hour at 600F 15.60C and 1 atmosphere space velocity Volume of Catalyst and is expressed in terms of hours 1. For a better understanding of the invention, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawing which graphically illustrates the removal of sulphur contamination from a gaseous ammonia stream using zinc oxide over both a period of time and a range of temperatures. The ability of zinc oxide to remove sulphur contaminant from an ammonia stream in accordance with the invention was tested over a range of temperatures and for an extended period of time using a commercially available zinc oxide catalyst. The space velocity employed was 1500 hours at 90 psig 620.55 kPa and the stream of ammonia, which was obtained from a plant in which ammonia was recovered and purified as described in U.S. Patent No. 3,383,173, had an average sulphur contamination of 12 ppm. The removal of the sulphur contaminant from the ammonia stream was measured as a function of time and temperature. The amount of sulphur contaminant removed is shown in percentage terms in the drawing.As shown in the drawing, from 50OOF 26 OOC and above, more than 90 of the sulphur contaminant is consistently removed from the ammonia stream over 300 running hours or more to give a product containing less than 1 ppm sulphur contaminant. Below 5000F 2600C , the ability of zinc oxide to remove the contaminating sulphur is diminished over a period of 300 hours, although the zinc oxide is still removing over 50 of the sulphur contaminant at this time. The removal of contaminating sulphur by zinc oxide is of particular importance in waste water treating processes. Waste water treating processes are described in detail in, for instance, the aforementionedU.S. Patents Nos. 3,335,071, 3,600,283 and 3,383,173, and also in U.S. Patent No. 3,340,182. During these processes, a stream of ammonia contaminated with sulphur is produced. The present invention is particularly suitable for removing the contaminating sulphur from the ammonia stream produced during these processes.