# Process for the production of one or more carboxylic acid anhydrides.

## Abstract
An olefin is reacted with an alcohol and carbon mon oxide using a halide promoted rhodium or iridium catalyst to form an anhydride of a carboxylic acid, for example, ethy lene is reacted with methanol and carbon monoxide to form a mixture of acetic and propionic anhydrides. The reaction rate is improved by including a quaternary ammonium or phosphonium compromoter. Desirably water is excluded from the reaction.

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for the production of a carboxylic acid anhydride or a mixture of carboxylic acid anhydrides which process comprises i reacting an olefin and ii an alcohol with iii carbon monoxide at elevated temperature in the presence of a catalyst containing rhodium or iridium and a promoter comprising a halogen selected from iodine and bromine in free or combined form. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein a quaternary nitrogen, phosphorus or arsenic copromoter is present. 3. A process as claimed in claim 2 wherein the quaternary nitrogen phosphorus or arsenic copromoter is formed by adding to the reaction vessel a trivalent nitrogen, phosphorus or arsenic compound capable of forming the quaternary compound under the reaction conditions. 4. A process as claimed in claim 3 wherein the trivalent nitrogen compound is one containing the trivalent nitrogen in a heterocycle. 5. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the atomic ratio of halogen to rhodium or iridium is at least 3 1. 6. A process as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 5 wherein the ratio of atoms of rhodium or iridium to molecules of copromoter is not more than 1 1 preferably 1 10 to 1 300. 7. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the process is effected at a temperture in the range 50 to 3000 and a partial pressure of carbon monoxide of from 10 to 100 bar and a partial pressure of olefin from 10 to 100 bar under conditions to maintain the alcohol or ester in the liquid phase and the catalyst in solution.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF ONE OR MORE CARBOXYLIC ACID ANHYDRIDES The present invention relates to a process for the production of one or more carboxylic acid anhydrides. Acetic anhydride has been known as an industrial chemical for many years. It constitutes the second largest end use for acetic acid and is extensively employed in the production of cellulose acetate and other esters. Smaller quantities are used in the production of aspirin, pharmaceuticals, pesticides and low temperature bleach activators. Uses have been proposed for other carboxylic acid anhydrides, such as propionic anhydride. On an industrial scale acetic anhydride is currently produced either by reaction of ketene and acetic acid, the ketene being obtained either by dehydration of acetic acid or by decomposition of acetone, or by the oxidation of acetaldehyde, which also yields acetic acid. Each of these conventional routes has well known disadvantages which knowledge, together with the increasing attention being paid to chemical syntheses involving carbon monoxide and carbon monoxide hydrogen mixtures, has led to investigations into the production of acetic anhydride utilising these materials.One approach to the preparation of an anhydride of a monocarboxylic acid is described in the complete specification of GB 1468940, in which a carboxylate ester satisfying the formula RCOOR or an ether satisfying the formula ROR is reacted with an acyl halide satisfying the formula RCOX, formed in situ or in a separate stage, under substantially anhydrous conditions, wherein X is iodide or bromide, the Rs may be the same or different and each R is a monovalent hydrocarbon radical or a substituted monovalent hydrocarbon radical wherein the or each substituent is inert. The acyl halide may be produced by carbonylation of a halide satisfying the formula RX at superatmospheric pressure in the presence as catalyst of aGroup VIII noble metal.Another approach to the production of carboxylic acid anhydrides is described in the complete specifications of GB Patents Nos 1398530, 1367607 and 1448010 all to Monsanto Co in which an ethylenically unsaturated compound is reacted with carbon monoxide in the presence of a carboxylic acid and a catalyst which is either a Group VIII metal or metal compound and a phenol, thiophenol, a substituted phenol or thiophenol, a C1 30 alkanethiocarboxylic acid, a C1 30 fluoroalkanecarboxylic acid, a C1 30 fluoroalkanethiocarboxylic acid or a C1 30 fluoroalkanesulphonic acid as promoter GB 1398530 , or an iridium complex comprising at least one ligand derived from a a compound which is a tertiary organoderivative of phosphorus, arsenic or antimony in which the total number of carbon atoms in the organic groups is from 3 to 90, b an olefinic compound having from 2 to 40 carbon atoms, or c a diolefinic compound having from 4 to 40 carbon atoms, in the substantial absence of added halide components GB 1367607 or a an unchelated rhodium I , rhodium III , iridium I or iridium III component, b an iodide component, and c a catalyst preserver or regenerator component which comprises hydrogen or a compound which yields hydrogen under the reaction conditions GB 1448010 . Replacement of the carboxylic acid by water at a quantitative level at least stoichiometric with the olefin reactant results in the formation of carboxylic acids rather than their anhydrides. It has now been found that a carboxylic acid anhydride or a mixture of carboxylic acid anhydrides can be produced by reacting an olefinically unsaturated compound and an alcohol with carbon monoxide in the presence of rhodium or iridium as catalyst and a halogen promoter. Accordingly, the present invention provides a process for the production of a carboxylic acid anhydride or a mixture of carboxylic acid anhydrides which process comprises i reacting an olefin and ii an alcohol with iii carbon monoxide at elevated temperature in the presence of a catalyst containing rhodium or iridium and a promoter comprising a halogen selected from bromine and iodine in free or combined form. The olefin may suitably be selected from compounds having from 2 to 30 carbon atoms of formula EMI3.1 in aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, acyclic or cycloaliphatic form wherein R1, R2, R3 and R4 are independently either hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, alkenyl, aryl, cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl moieties or, in a heteroaliphatic compound, are moieties containing nitrogen, phosphorus, sulphur, halogen or oxygen atoms or, in a cycloaliphatic compound R2 and R3 are linked. Suitable compounds having the above formula I include ethylene propylene butene 1 butene 2 pentenes hexenes octenes hexadecene 2 methylpropene 1,3 butadiene 2 methyl 1 ,3 butadiene 2,3 dimethyl 1,3 butadiene styrene methylstyrene 3 ,3 dimethyl 1 butene 1,4 hexadiene acrolein methyl vinyl ketone and 2 cyclohexylbutene.If desired, mixtures of the aforesaid olefines may be employed. The alcohol may be an aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, acyclic, cycloaliphatic or aromatic alcohol, or a mixture thereof. Suitably the alcohol may be an alkanol having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, such as methanol, ethanol, n propanol, iso propanol, n butanol, secbutanol or tert butanol. The carbon monoxide may suitably be substantially pure or it may contain impurities such as hydrogen, carbon dioxide, nitrogen or methane. If water is present in the reactants the yield of anhydride product is reduced and carboxylic acid is produced. Preferably, therefore, in order to reduce the formation of substantial amounts of carboxylic acids all the reactants including the carbon monoxide are substantially anhydrous, for example they contain less than 3 , more preferably less than 1t w w water. The catalyst comprises rhodium or iridium. The rhodium or iridium may be used in the zero valent state or in any higher valent form. Thus the rhodium or iridium may be added as the elemental metal in finely divided form, as a simple salt such as the halide, as an organometallic compound such as a carboxylate salt or as a coordination compound with ligands such as carbon monoxide, halides, phosphines, arsines and trivalent nitrogen compounds. Suitable forms of rhodium or iridium are described in the patent specifications of GB 1253758 and the aforesaid GB 1398530, 1367607 and 1448010 to which reference may be made for further details.Examples of compounds which may be added include Rh C0 2C1 2 RhC13.3H20 RhBr3 RhI3 IrBr3 IrI3 RhBr3.3H20 IrBr3.3H20 Rh2 CO 4Br2 Ir2 CO 4I2 Rh C6H5 3P12 C0 I and IrBr C6Hs 3p 3. Suitably the promoter may be added in the form of elementary iodine, hydrogen iodide, an inorganic halide salt, such as for example sodium or potassium iodide, or a quaternary ammonium or phosphonium halide, such as for example a tetraalkylammonium halide. Particularly preferred are organo iodides and bromides such as alkyl iodides, eg methyl iodide. Preferably a quaternary nitrogen, phosphorus or arsenic copromoter is present. The copromoter can be a heterocyclic aromatic compound in which at least one of the hetero atoms is a quaternary nitrogen atom. The copromoter can be added as such or in a form capable of forming the quaternary compound under the reaction conditions. Suitable heterocyclic aromatic quaternary nitrogen compounds which may be added as such include N methyl pyridinium iodide N,N dimethylimidazolinium iodide N methyl 3 picolinium iodide N methyl 3, 4 lutidinium iodide and N methyl quinolinium iodide. Suitable quaternary phosphorus compounds include tributylmethylphosphonium iodide, triphenylmethylphosphonium iodide, trilaurylmethylphosphonium iodide and trioctylmethylphosphonium iodide. It is preferred, however, to add a heterocyclic aromatic compound of trivalent nitrogen which is capable of forming a quaternary compound under the reaction conditions. Suitable trivalent forms of nitrogen are heterocyclic amines such as pyridine, picoline, quinoline, methylquinoline, hydroxyquinoline pyrrole, pyrrolidine, pyrrolidone and the like or an imidazole, such as imidazole, methyl imidazole and the like. Alternatively, there may be added a compound of formula EMI5.1 wherein X is nitrogen, phosphorus or arsenic and R5, R6 and R7 which may be the same or different are alkyl groups having up to 20, preferably from 1 to 8, carbon atoms or monocyclic aryl groups, or when X is phosphorus or arsenic R7 may be the group EMI5.2 wherein R7 and R8 are each a monocyclic aryl group or an alkyl group and n is zero or an integer in the range 1 to 20.Suitable compounds of formula II include trimethylamine, triethylamine, triphenylamine, triphenylarsine, methyldiphenylarsine, trimethylphosphine, tripropylphosphine and triphenylphosphine. With regard to the amounts of the various reactants employed, the molar ratio of olefin to methanol to carbon monoxide may suitably be from 0.1 to 10 0.1 to 10 0.1 to 10 in particular from 0.75 to 1.5 0.75 to 1.5 0.75 to 1.5 for example about 1 1 1, though different ratios may be employed if so desired. Although any ratio of promoter to rhodium or iridium may be employed, suitable ratios expressed as atoms of iodine or bromide in the promoter to atoms of rhodium or iridium in the catalyst may suitably be in the range from 1 1 to 2500 1, preferably at least 3 1 for example from from 3 1 to 300 1. Using a copromoter which is formed in situ it will be necessary to make adjustments to the foregoing ranges to make allowance for the fact that iodine is utilised in forming the quaternary compound.The molar ratio of rhodium or iridium compound in the catalyst component to the quaternary compound employed as copromoter may suitably be not more than 1 1 for example in the range from 1 1 to 1 1200, preferably from 1 10 to 1 300. The elevated temperature may suitably be in the range from 50 to 3000C, preferably from 125 to 2500C. The partial pressure of carbon monoxide and olefin when the olefin is gaseous may suitably be in the range from 1.0 to 1000 bar, preferably from 10 to 100 bar. Higher pressures may be used if so desired under appropriate conditions. The process may be carried out in the liquid phase or in the vapour phase. In the case of both liquid and vapour phase operation, the catalyst and optionally also the promoter or copromoter may be supported, ie they may be dispersed on a conventional support material, such as for example alumina, silica, silica alumina, zeolites, clays, titania or zirconia. The catalyst and optionally the promoter and or copromoter may be applied to the support in conventional manner, eg by impregnation from solution.The catalyst concentration on the support may suitably be in the range from 0.01 to 10 by weight. Alternatively, the metal catalyst components may be attached to an ion exchange resin or to a functionalised inorganic oxide such as those described in the complete specification of GB 1503315 or European patent publicationNo 18102 BP Case No 4752 . The process of the invention may be carried out batchwise or continuously. Reaction of methanol and ethylene with carbon monoxide is believed to proceed according to the following equations EMI6.1 The product contains a mixture of three acid anhydrides 1 , 2 and 3 . This mixture may be isolated from the product, suitably by distillation, and utilised without any further processing or may be separated into its individual components by distillation.Alternatively, the mixture of products 1 , 2 and 3 may be distilled in the presence of a catalyst for accelerating the interconversion of 1 into 2 and 3 and acetic anhydride 2 distilled out of the mixture, thereby driving the equilibrium in the direction of 2 and 3 and recovering two instead of three acid anhydrides. Reaction of ethanol and propylene with carbon monoxide gives a mixture of propionyl anhydride, butyryl anhydride and the mixed propionyl butyryl anhydride. It is possible to produce a single carboxylic acid anhydride product. Thus, for example, reaction of ethanol and ethylene with carbon monoxide can produce only propionic anhydride.Thus in general reaction of a C,1 alcohol and a C,1 olefin with carbon monoxide produces a single anhydride Cn lco 2o The invention will now be further illustrated by reference to the following Examples.Example 1 No quaternary nitrogen copromoter present A corrosion resistant autoclave of 100 cm3 capacity equipped with a rotary stirrer was charged with the following reaction mixture methanol 16 g, methyl iodide 2.8 g, and Rh C0 2C1 2 0.1 g. The autoclave was closed, flushed three times with ethylene and then pressurised with 500 psia of ethylene and 500 psia of carbon monoxide. The autoclave was heated to 1700C and this temperature maintained for 10 hours. The autoclave was then cooled and depressurised and a sample withdrawn for analysis. The autoclave was then repressurised with 500 psia of ethylene and 500 psia of carbon monoxide and reheated to 1700C. 14 hours later the autoclave was cooled and depressurised.Gas liquid chromatography GLC analysis showed that after 10 hours the product contained no anhydrides but that after 24 hours anhydrides were formed in the following concentrations acetic anhydride 1 , aceto propionic anhydride 8.6 and propionic anhydride 14.2 w w.Example 2 Use of quaternary nitrogen copromoter To the autoclave of Example 1 was charged methanol 16 g, methyl iodide 2.8 g, Rh C0 2Cl 2 0.1 g and methyl 3 picolinium iodide quaternary nitrogen copromoter 9.4 g. The autoclave was flushed three times with ethylene and then pressurised with 470 psia of ethylene and 520 psia of carbon monoxide. The autoclave was heated to 1700C and this temperature maintained for 3 hours, during which time 880 psia of carbon monoxide was added to replace gas consumed by the reaction. The autoclave was then cooled and depressurised.GLC analysis showed that the product contained anhydrides in the following concentrations acetic anhydride 8.4 , aceto propionic anhydride 8.2 and propionic anhydride 2.7 w w. Example 3 Use of quaternary nitrogen copromoter formed in situ The autoclave of Example 1 was charged with a reaction mixture comprising methanol 16 g, methyl iodide 10.9 g, N methyl imidazole 1.78 g, and RhC13.3H20 0.1 g. The autoclave was closed, flushed three times with ethylene, and then pressurised with 520 psia ethylene and 475 psia CO. The autoclave was heated and the temperature maintained at 1700C for 3.5 hours, during which time the pressure was maintained at greater than 650 psia by addition of fresh CO to replace gas consumed by the reaction. The product was analysed by GLC and found to contain anhydrides in the following concentrations acetic anhydride 14.8 , aceto propionic anhydride 13.4 , and propionic anhydride 3.6 w w. In all the above examples the alcohol was maintained in the liquid phase and the catalyst in solution.