# Polyarylene esters moulding compositions, process for their preparation and shaped articles therefrom.

## Abstract
A molding resin comprising an intimate blend of a polyarylene ester and a reinforcing filler the polyarylene ester consisting essentially of units derived from a C₈ to C₂₅ aromatic dicarboxylic acid and a diphenol comprising from 60 to 100 mol percent 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane and from 40 to 0 mol percent of a C₆ to C₂₅ diphenol, said inherent viscosity of said polyarylene ester at 30 C. is at least 0.5 as determined at a concentration of 0.5 grams polyester per 100 ml solution in a solvent mixture of 60 parts by weight of phenol and 40 parts by weight of sym tetrachloroethane. A process for preparing the said molding resin is also described.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A molding resin comprising an intimate blend of a polyarylene ester and a reinforcing filler the polyarylene ester consisting essentially of units derived from a C8 to C25 aromatic dicarboxylic acid and a diphenol comprising from 60 to lO0mol percent.1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane and from 40 to 0 mol percent of a C6 to C25 diphenol, said inherent viscosity of said polyarylene ester at 300C is at least 0.5 as determined at a concentratlon of 0.5 grams polyester per 100ml solution in a solvent misture of 60 parts by weight of phenol and, 40 parts by weight of sym tetrachloroethane. 2.t crystal linemolding resin according to Claim 1 in which the melt viscosity of said polyarylene ester at 3500C is less than 105 poises determined at a shear rate of 100 sec l with a capillary rheometer. 3. A molding resin according to either of Claims 1 or 2 in which said reinforcing filler. is a granular, plate like, acicular or fibrous filler and comprises from 2 to 60 weight percent of the molding resin. 4. A molding resin according to any of. the preceding claims in which said reinforcing filler is a fibrous non metallic .filler. 5. A molding resin according to any of Claims 1 to 3 in which said reinforcing filler is glass fiber. A molding resin according to any of the preceding claims in which said aromatic dicarboxylic acid comprises isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid t butyl isophthalic acid, 3,3 ,3,4 or 4,4 bibe zoic acid or a bis carboxyphenyl ether, bis carbc. phenyl sulfide, bis carboxyphenyl sulfone, bis carboxyphenyl methane, I, 2 bis carboxyphenyl ethane, or a 2,2 bis 4 carboxyphenyl propane, wherein the carboxy groups are in the 3 or 4 positions. 7. A molding resin according to any of the preceding claims in which said C6 to C25 diphenol comprises resorcinol, hydroquinone, a 3,3 ,3,4 or 4,4 diphenol or a diphenol represented by the formulaEMI18.1 where the hydroxyl groups are in the 3 or 4positions, Y is O, S, SO2, C O, CH2, CH CH3 , C CH3 2, or CH2 3, and R is H or a C1 to C4 alkyl radical and n O to 4. 8. A molding resin according to any of the preceding claims in which said C6 to C25 diphenol comprises hydroquinone, resorcinol, bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane, 1,2 bis 3 hydroxyphenil ethane, 1 3 hydeoxyphenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane, 2,2 bis 4 nydroxyphenyl propane, bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ether, bis 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfide and bis 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfone. 9. A molding resin according to any of the ng claims in which said polyarylene ester has a crystallization rate of at least 0.2 mien 1. 10. A crystalline molding resin according to Claim 1, comprising from 2 to 60 weight percent of the total composition of the reinforcing filler and said polyarylene ester consisting essentially of recurring units represented by the formulaEMI19.1 and having an inherent viscosity at 300C. of at least 0.7 as determined at a concentration of 0.5 grams polyester per 100 ml solution in a solvent mixture of 60 parts by weight of phenol and 40 parts by weight of sym tetrachloroethane. 11. A molding resin according to Claim 10 in which said reinforcing filler is a granular, plate like, acicular or fibrous filler. 12. A process of producing a molding resin according to Claim 1 comprising the intimate blending of the polyarylene ester with the reinforcing filler. 13. A shaped resin article molded from a molding resin according to Claim 1.

## Description
POLYARYLENE ESTERS This invention relates to a molding resin, to a method of producing the molding resin and to shaped articles formed from the molding resin. More particularly, it pertains to molding resins comprising a polyarylene esterEMI1.1 and a reinforcing filler, to a method of producing such molding resins and to shaped articles formed from such molding resins. Many polyesters have been suggested for use as molding resins and engineering thermoplastics since the earliest practical development of such polymers byWhinfield And Dickson. A1 though several of such polyesters and copolyesters have found commercial success as film and fiber products, few have been successful as molding resins and engineering thermoplastics. Two of the more successful, polyethylene terephthalate. and polytetramethylene terephthalate prepared from aliphatic diols and terephthalic acid, suffer from certain deficiencies as engineering thermoplastcs. They are both quite flammable and have rather low glass transition temperatures which can limit their usefulness to relatively low temperatures. The present invention discloses improved molding resins that yield molded articles possessing a improved fire safety performance, particularly reduced 6 ervglow, b improved resistance to heat distortion and c improved resistance to flow at elevatea temperatures in comparison with reinforced polyalkylene terephthalates.According to the present invention there is provided a molding resin comprising an intimate blend of a r . polyarylene ester and a reinforcing filler, the polyarylene ester consisting essentially of units derived from a C8 to C25 aromatic dicarboxylic acid and a diphenol comprising from 60 to 100 mol percent 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane and from 40 to O mol percent df a C6 to C25 diphenol, said inherent viscosity of said polyarylene ester at 300C. is at least 0.5 as determined at a concentration of 0.5 grams polyester per 100 ml solution in a solvent mixture of 60 parts by weight of phenol and 40 parts by weight of sym tetrachloroethane.The present invention also provides a process of producing a molding resin comprising the intimate blending of the polyarylene ester with the reinforcing filler and the shaped articles molded from these molding resins. The molding resins of the present invention comprise an intimate blend of a polyarylene ester.and a reinforcing filler preferably ranging from 2 to 60 weight percent of the total composition. Such polyarylene esters consist essentially of units derived from at least one C8 to C25 aromatic dicarboxylic acid and a diphenol comprising from 60 to 100 mol percent 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane and from 40 to O mol percent of at least one 06. to C25 diphenol. The polyarylene ester component of the molding resin of the present invention is the condensation product of at least one C8 to C25 aromatic dicarboxylic acid and a diphenol comprising from 60 to 100 mol percent 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane and from 40 to O mol percent of at least one C6 to C25 diphenol. The polyesters are described in Belgian Patent 850,978 and have been found to possess superior fire safety performance and are capable of yielding crystalllne compositions which have superior solvent resistance and stress cracking resistance. While essentially any suitable C8 to C25 aromatic dicarboxylic acid and admixture thereof can be used in the preparation of the polyarylene esters, the preferred aromatic dicarboxylic acids comprise at least one acid of isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, 3,3 , 3,4 and 4,4 bibenzoic acids and bis carboxyphenyl ethers, bis carboxyphenyl sulfides, bis carbosyphenyl sulfones, bis carboxyphenyl methanes, 1, 2 bis carboxy phenil ethanes and 2,2 bis carboxyphenil propanes in which the carboxy groups are in the 3 or 4 positions.Mixtures of one or more of the aromatic dicarboxylic diacids with minor quantities, generally less than 25 mol percent ct C2 to C20 aliphatic diacids can also be used. The quantities of aliphatic diacids in general are selected so that they do not cause a significant loss in Tg of the resulting polyesters. Prefer ably tr.e quantity is limited to a loss in Tg of not more than 10 C. The acid or admixture of acids is combined with 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenil ethane or with 1, 2 bis 4 hydroxy phenyl ethane in admixture with essentially any other suitable diphenol or mixture of diphenols to provide the aromatic polyesters of the present invention.Representative diphenols comprise at least one diphenol of resorcinol, hydroquinone, 3,3 , 3,4 and A,4 diphenols, or diphenols represented by the formula EMI4.1 wherein the hydroxyl groups are in the 3 or 4 positions,Y is 0, S, S02, C O, CH2, CH CH3 , C CH3 2, CH2 2 or CH2 3 and R is R or a C1 to C4 alkyl radical and m O to 4. Examples of diphenols according to formula 1 include bis 4 hydroxyphenil methane 1,2 bis 3 hye.droxyphenil ethane, 1 3 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane, 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, bis 4 hydroxy phenyl ether, bis 4 hydroxyphenil sulfide and bis 4 hy droxyphenyl sulfone. While the diphenol must contain at least 60 mol percent 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphennyl ethane, it is preferred to use a diphenol which comprises at least 90 mol percent, 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane because these polyesters are generally crystalline and exhibit a rather rapid rate of crystallization and polyarylene esters in which 1,2 bts 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane is substantially the only diphenolic component can be used to advantage to obtain more rapid rates of crystallization. The inherent viscozity of the polyesters determined at 30 C. and in a solvent combination of 60 parts by weight phenol and 40 parts by weight sm tetrachloro ethane at a concentration of 0.5 g per dl, is at least 0.5 and is preferably at least 0.7. The selection of acid and diphenol components is made so that the polyester preferably has a glass transition temperature of at least 1000C. and a melt viscosity at. 3500C. determined in a capillarry rheometer at a shear rate of 100sec 1 of bless than 105 poise..For. crystalline polyesters prepared by condensation of aromatic diacid and phenol comprising at least 90 mol percent l,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane, the aromatic dicarboxylic acid is preferably selected so that the melting point if the polyarylene esther is less than 350 C.A preffered group of the polyarylene esters comprises those polyesters obtained by condensation of a diphenol comprising at least 90 mol percent 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane and a dicarboxylic acid comprising at least 67 mol percent isophthalic acid. Of this group, one of the preferred combinationsis obtained from 1,2bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane and isophthalic acid without additional components. Such preferences are based on the availability and cost of the acid as well as on the desirable glass transition and melting points of the re melting polyesters. Since molding cycles are preferably rapid, it is desirable that a crystalline polyester crystallize in the short period during which the polymer is cooling in the mold. Thus a molding material for uses where high temper ature dimensional stability is important, needs to have a rapid rate of crystallization. The glass transition temperature, the melting point and the rate of crystallization cari be determined by means of differential scanning calorimetry as described in Belgian Patent 850,978. The crystallization rate is expressed as the inverse of the time required for one half of the crystallization exotherm observed when a sample is cooled at a rate of 20 C. per minute. A rate of crystallization of about about 0.2 minutes l or greater as determined by this method is satisfactory in injection molding of polymers because the cooling rate in the molding operation is generally much faster than the cooling rate used in the determination of rate of crystallization. However, a crystallization rate of about 0.5 minutes or greater is more preferable and for rapid molding cycles a crystallization rate of about one minute1 or greater is even more preferred. The polyarylene ester component of the present in Invention can be produced by a convenient method such as by melt condensation or solvent condensation of mixtures of aromatic dicarboxylic acids and diphenol diesters selected to provide polyarylene esters of the desired fire safety performance and processability. They can be produced by melt or solution polymerization of selected mixtures of phenol esters of aromatic dicarboxylic acids and diphenols and by interfacial polymerization of salts of diphenols and aromatic dicarboxylic acid dihalides. Thus, while the combination is formally a condensate of diacid and diphenol, in practice the reactants are diacids and diphenal esters, or phenyl esters of diacids and diphenols, or salts of diphen ols and diacid halides.One method of preparation is the melt condensation of mixtures of aromatic dicarboxylic Facids and diphenol diesters. Another method is the melt icondensation of mixtures of aromatic dicarboxylic acids and diphenol diesters to a prepolymer stage of inherent viscosity in the range of 0.1 to 0.4 followed by solid state polymerization to advance the polymer to an inherent viscosity above 0.5. The molding resins of the present invention are prepared by intimately blending the polyarylene, ester with sufficient reinforcing filler which is generally from 2 to 60 weight percent of the total composition.Preferably, the amount of reinforcing filler is in the range of from 5 to 40 weight percent of the total con. position to achieve a sufficient degree of reinforcement without an excessive increase in melt viscosity. It is to be understood that the indicia of reinforcement are increases in the tensile strength, stiffness or impact strength of the filled composition in comparison with the unfilled composition. In general, any reinforcement can be used such as granular, plate like, acicular or fibrous fillers of suitable size for reinforcement. The fillers may be metallic such as aluminum, iron, nickel, copper or zinc or may be non metallic such as carbon filaments, silicaters, clays, calcined clays, asbestos, silica, titanium dioxide, titanate whiskers, glass flakes and fibers and the like. The preferred reinforcing fillers include any kind of glass fibers usually used for reinforcing thermoplastic resins and are relatively sda free glasses comprising lime aluminum borosilicate glass such as types 11C and E glass. The fibers may be in the form of filaments, or bundled into strands, ropes or rovings and the like. They are conveniently used in the form of chopped strands of up to 5 cm. in length and preferably in the range of 0.3 cm to 2.5 cm. in length. Other addi tives such as colorants, plasticizets, stabilizers, hardeners and the like can be incorporated into the molding resins. Blending of the polyarylene ester and the rein forcing filler is carried out in any convenient way, such as by dry mixing pellets or powder of polyarylene ester with the filler and melt blending and extrusion , or by adding filler to molten polyarylene ester, blending and extrusion. The polyarylene ester, the reinforcing filler and any other additives are preferably as free as possible of water. Mixing is preferably carried out in as short a time as possible to provide a sufficiently intimate and uniform blend and at a temperature selected for adequate melt viscosity but insufficient to cause thermal degradation Wf the resin. The blend can be extruded and cut up into molding compounds such as granules, pellets etc. by conventional techniques. The molding resins can be molded in any equipment conveniently used for reinforced thermoplastic compositions e.g., a 14 gm. Arburgmachine with temperature in the range of 250 C to 350 C. and mold temperature of 100 C to 150 C. can be used. Depending on the molding properties of the polyarylene ester, the amount of reinforcing filler and the crystallization behavior of the polyarylene ester, those skilled in the art will be able to make the conventional adjustments in molding cycles to accommodate the composition. The invention is further illustrated but is not intended to be limited by the following examples in which ratios of monomers are mol ratios and all other parts and percentages are by weight unless specified otherwise. EXAMPLE A POLY 1,2 BIS HYDROXYPHELYNE ETHANE ISOPHTALADE A charge consisting of . F. warts cf isophtalic acid and 14.8 parts of 1,2 bis 4 acetoxyphenyl ethane is placed in a reaction vessel equipped with a stirred, con denser and receiver. The vessel is evacuated and purged with nitrogen three times. A nitrogen blanket is maintained in the reactor while it is heated to. 2500C ,. for about three hours during which period approximattely 3.5 to 4.0 parts of acetic acid distills. Thereupon the vessel is evacuated to a pressure of 125 mm. and heating at 275 C.is continued for one half hour during which period an addi tional 1 to 1.5 parts of acetic acid distills, The vacuum is then increased to reduce the pressure to about 0,1 to 0,2 mm. and the temperature is raised to 290 C. for an additional hour At this point the reaction mixture becomes so viscous that further stirring is difficult.Heating is stopped, the reaction mixture is again blanketed with nitrogen an allowed to cool. The resultant polymer is light yellow in color, crystalline and demonstrates an inherent viscosity of 0.57 in the phenol tetrachloroethane solvent. EXAMPLE B POLY 1,2 BIS 4 HYDROXYPHENYL ETHANE ISOPHTALADE A similar reaction is carried out under the samt3 conditions and with the reactants and equipment described in Example A except that after the initial three hour period the temperature is raised to 275 C. and the pressure is reduced to 125 mm. for 30 minutes. Thereafter, the temperature is raised to 2900C. during the finial per at high vacuum of 0.1 to 0.2 mm. The resultant polymar demonstrates an inherent viscosity of 0.83 and its crystal line and a clear light yellow in color. EXAMPLES C U Examples C to U are carried out by reacting mix tures of diphenol diacetates and isophthalic acid by the melt method of Example A, with adjustment in the temperature and heating cycle appropriate for the rheology and morphology of the particulaypolyester or by melt polymerization to a prepolymer followed by solid state polymerization of the crystalline polyester. Compositions and physical property data are set forth in Table 1. Melt Viscosities are determined at 316 C. with a Sieglaff lMcKelvey Rheometer at a shear rate of 100 sec , using a capillary with a l ength to diameter ratio of 25 to 1. The data show that polyester combinations containing high levels of l,2 bis hydroxyphenyl ethane and acids such as isophthalic acid are opaque and exhibit crystalline melting points below 300 C. and crystallize rapidly while in contrast, polyester combinations containing substantial amounts of other diphenols and polyester combinat ions containing substantial amounts of substituted acids guch as 5 t butyl isophthalic acid are amorphous. Fire safety performance is conveniently determined b the Underwriter s Laboratory Test for Flammability ofPlastic Materials UL 94, September 17, 1973 using the ratings which became effective February 1, 1974. The polyesters of l,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane are found to be superior in their UL 94.rating to polyesters containing a subatantial amount of bisphenol A 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane. TABLE 1 POYARYLENE ESTERS OF 1,2 BIS 4 HYDROXYPHENYL ETHANE UL 94 Composition RatingEx Diphenol Diacid Inherent Tg Tm Rate of Melt Thickness ample Mol Ratio Mol Ratio Appearance Viscosity 0 C. 0 C. Crys.Min 1 Viscosity 0.79mmC 100 BHPE 100 I Opaque 0.96 140 V 0 to V 1D 100 BHPE 100 I Opaque 0.96 1.8x104 E 100 BHPE 100 I Opaque 0.62 1.8x103 F 100 BHPE 100 I Opaque 0.5 V 1G 100 BHPE 100 I Opaque 1.01 154 289 H 100 BHPE 97 I 3A Opaque 0.72 V 1 to V 1I 100 BHPE 90 I,10 T Opaque 0.88 154 255 0.72 J 100 BHPE 93 I, 7 N Opaque 0.86 0.99 K 100 BHPE 90 I,10 O Opaque 0.93 2.56 L 100 BHPE 67 I,33 N Opaque M 100 BHPE 85 I,15 BI Opaque 0.86 150 V 0N 100 BHPE 80 I,20 BI Opaque 0.77 150 262 V 0O 100 BHPE 75 I,25 BI Transparent, 1,02 V 0 amorphousP 100 BHPE 75 I,25 BI Transparent, 0,82 150 257 amorphous , heat crystallizable . TABLE 1 CONTINUED POLYARILENE ESTERS OF 1,2 BIS 4 HYDROXYPHENYL ETHANE UL 94 RatingEx Diphenol Diacid Inherent Tg. Tm Rate of Melt Thickness ample Mol Ratio Mol Ratio Appearence Viscozity C, C, Crys.Min 1 Viscozity 0,79mQ 90 BHPE, 100 I Opaque 1.10 2.11 10 BHPSR 90 BHPE, 100 I Opaque 0,94 1.15x104 V 0 to V 1 10 BPAS 75 BHPE, 100 I Transparent, 0.53 2.3x104 V 1 25 BPA amorphousT 50 BHPE, 100 I Transparent, 0.50 9.5x102 Fails 50 BPA amorphousU 100 BPA 100 I Transparent, 0.62 180 None 0 Fails amorphousBHPE 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethaneBPA 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane bisphenol A BHPS bis 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfideA Azelaic acidI isophtalic acidT terephtalic acidN 2,6 naphtalene dicarboxylic acidO oxydibenzoic acid, bis 4 carboxyphenyl ether BI 5 t butyl isophtalic acid PREPARATION OF MOLDING, RESINS EXAMPLE 1 Polyisophthalate of 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane prepared as in Example C, is extruded and chopped to yield pellets of approximately 3 to 5 mm in length and 2 mm in diameter. 85 parts by weight of the pellets are blended in a tumble blender with 15 parts by wEight of chopped glass strand, 4.8 mm length, containing 800 filanents of .13 micron diameter per strand supplied by Owens Corking Fiberglas Corporation under the trade name OwensCorning Fiberglas 419. The blend of polyester and glass fiber is force fed to the chopper of a single stage extruder heated to 3200C. and is slowly extruded through the strand die. The strand is cooled and chopped to provide pellets of molding resin. The molding resin is injection molded in a 14 gm.Arburg machine at a temperature of 315 C. and a mold temperature of 112 C. to provide test bars. The test bars are tested for tensile strength and elongation, ASTM D 638 flexural strength and modulus, ASTM D 790 impact strength XSTM D 256 heat distortion ASTM D 648. The data are presented in Table 2. EXAMPLES 2 and 3 Molding resins are prepared as in Example I with the polyisophthalate of 1,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane and respectively 22.5 and 30 parts by weight of glass fiber per 100 parts by weight of total composition. The molding resins are injection molded into test bars and subjected to physical testing. The data are presented in Table 2. TABLE 2 PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF ARTICLES MOLDED FROM THEPOLYSOPHTALATE OF 1,2 BOS 4 HYDROXYPHENYL ETHANE Examples 1 2 3 4Wt. Glass Fiber 15 22.5 30 Tensile Strength, Kg cm 10.5 12 12.7 .3 X 10 2Elongation 4.4 3.1 1.8 18Modulus Kg. cm X 10 5.3 7.0 8.4 2.3Izod 64 cm X 1.3 cm X 0.18 0.24 0.26 0.25 0.64 cm Kg mHDTUL, C. 16,4 cm X 158 183 204 137 1.3 cm X 0.µ4 cm 18,6 kg cm Example 2 is subjected to the Underwriter s UL 94 test. The rating for samples 1.58 mm in thickness is V 0 average flame out time within 5 seconds, no afterglow .In comparison, the polyester of Example 2 without glass fibar reinforcement is rated V O average flame out timeWithin 3 seconds with afterglow . A test bar of Example 2 with a heat distortion temperature of 183 C. was subjected to a load in the range of 0.14 to 0.28 kg cm 2 for 20 minutes at 210 C No flow or deformation occurs. In contrast, a test bar of a reinforced polytetramethylene terephthalate, containing 30 weight percent glass fiber, having a heat distortion temperature of 212 C, shows considerable flow and deformation under similar conditions and fails the UL 94 test. EXAMPLES 4 9 molding resins are prepared as in Example 1 by blending polyarylene ester Examples K, L, M, N, P and R with 30 weight percent of the total composition of OwensCorning Fiberglas 41c. The molding resins are molded inbars. Considerable enhancement of the tensile strength, modulus and heat distortion temperature is obtained in comparison with the, unfilled polyesters. EXAMPLES 10 13 These examples are prepared for comparative purposes. A polyarylene ester similar to Example U comprising the condensation product of bisphenol A and isophthalic acid, of inherent viscosity 0.8 is blended with glass fiber in the manner described in Example 1. The molding resins thus obtained are molded into test bars and tested for physical properties. Examples 10, 11 and 12 contain 15, 22.5 and 30 weight percent of glass fiber Example 13 is theunreinforcedpolyester. The data are presented in Table 3 and show that the heat distortion temperature of this polyester is relatively unaffected by the reinforcing filler in contrast to the pronounced effect obtained in Examples 1 3 comprising the polyisophthalate of 1,2 bis 4hydroxyphenyl ethane. TABLE 3 PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF ARTICLES MOLDED FROM THE POLYISOPHTHALATE OF 2, 2 BIS 4 HYLROXYPHENYL PROPANE Examples 10 11 12 13Wt. Glass Fiber 15 22.5 30 NoneTensile Strength kg cm 9.3 33.2 12.5 7.7 X 10 2 Elongation 5,6 6 3.9 3.8 4.0 Modulus kg cm 2x10 4 2 4.0 5.8 6.7 2.24 HDTUL, 0 C, 18.6 kg cm 175 173 177 160 EXAMPLES 14 16 Molding resins containing 30 weight percent glass fiber are prepared in the manner of Example 1, from polyester Examples S and T. The molding resins are molded into test bars. The tensile strength and modulus of the polyesters are. enhanced by the addition of glass. fiber.However, little improvement in heat distortion temperature is obtained.