# Thermoplastics film.

## Abstract
Thermoplastics film having a thickness not greater than 100 microns preferably not greater than 50 microns comprising at least 70 wt high density polyethylene density not less than 935 kg m³ characterised in that the film has a total haze ASTMD 1003 61 70, Procedure A less than 50 and a clarity ASTMD 1746 70 of at least 25 . The film can be manufactured by pressing raw polyolefin film 1 between smooth surfaces 2,3 at a temperature at least sufficient to cause plastic deformation and leveling of the film surface.

## Claims
Claims 1. Thermoplastics film having a thickness not greater than 100 pm fabricated from thermoplastics material comprising at least 70 by weight of high density polyethylene having a density not less than 935 kg m3, the high density polyethylene being A one or more ethylene homopolymers, B one or more ethylene hydrocarbon copolymers or C a blend of A and B, and the thermoplastics material as a whole having a density not less than 935 kg m3 and a melt index ASTM method D1238, condition E of less than 1, characterised in that the film has a total haze ASTM D1003 61 70, procedure A of less than 50 and a clarity ASTM D1746 70 of at least 25 . 2. Thermoplastics film as claimed in claim 1 having a thickness in the range 15 25 pm and having a dart impact ASTM D1709 75 of at least 50g. 3. Thermoplastics film as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the thermoplastics material comprises at least 95 by weight of high density polyethylene. 4. Thermoplastics film as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the density of the thermoplastics material from which the film is fabricated is in the range 947 957 kg m3. 5. Thermoplastics film as claimed in any one of the preceding claims fabricated from thermoplastics material having a high load melt index ASTM method D1238, condition F in the range 4 25. 6. Thermoplastics film as claimed in any one of the preceding claims having a total haze less than 10 . 7. A process for treating raw thermoplastics film manufactured by a film blowing process to provide film of thickness not greater than 100 pm having improved optical properties, wherein the thermoplastics material comprises at least 70 by weight of high density polyethylene being A one or more ethylene homopolymers, B one or more ethylene hydrocarbon copolymers or C a blend of A and B, and the thermoplastics material as a whole having a density not less than 935 kg m3 and a melt index of not less than 1, characterised in that the raw blown film is subjected to a surface pressure between two or more oppositely disposed surfaces at least one of which is a smooth surface, the subjecting being carried out at a temperature which is at least sufficient to cause plastic deformation of the thermoplastics under the action of the applied pressure so that the smooth surface causes levelling of the film surface in contact therewith. 8. A process for treating a raw thermoplastics film manufactured by a film blowing process to provide a film of thickness not greater than 100 pm having improved optical properties, wherein the thermoplastics material comprises at least 70 by weight of high density polyethylene being A one or more ethylene homopolymers, B one or more ethylene hydrocarbon copolymers, or C a blend of A and B, and the thermoplastics material having a density not less than 935 kg m3 and a melt index of not less than 1, characterised in that the raw film is sandwiched between two sheets of material having one or more smooth surfaces adjacent the film and removing any substantial gas voids trapped between the film and the sheets, heating the film to a temperature sufficiently high to permit plastic deformation of the film surface so that the film surfaces become levelled by contact with the smooth surfaces and cooling the levelled film. 9. A process as claimed in claim 7 wherein the two or more oppositely disposed surfaces are provided by two or more oppositely disposed rollers. 10. A process as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the smooth surfaces are provided by sheets of polyethylene terephthalate.

## Description
THERNOPLASTICS FILM The present invention relates to thermoplastics film having improved optical properties and to a process for the production thereof. More particularly, the invention relates to thermoplastics film having improved optical properties wherein the thermoplastics material comprises at least 70 by weight of high density polyethylene. The term high density polyethylene is used throughout this specification to describe substantially linear ethylene homopolymer, ethylene hydrocarbon copolymer and blends thereof having a density not less than 935 kg m 3. The density of thermoplastics material including polyethylene, copolymer or blends as quoted in this specification is measured by the method described in British Standard Specification 2782, Method 620D, the specimens being moulded as indicated in Appendix A, B.2, B.3 ofBritish Standard Specification 3412 1976. High density ethylene homopolymers and copolymers can be manufactured for example by the well known Phillips and Ziegler processes. A large variety of grades of high density polyethylene are commercially available from such processes, each grade being adapted for use in one or more particular fabrication processes. In the manufacture of film where mechanical strength is frequently an important characteristic of the film, it is desirable to employ relatively high molecular weight grades of high density polyethylene. The manufacture of high density polyethylene film by techniques such as film blowing and casting through a slit die is well known in the art. High density polyethylene films manufactured by these techniques generally have reasonably good mechanical properties but frequently have inferior optical properties compared with a variety of other commercially available films, for example, cellulose acetate film or chill roll cast polypropylene film. For example, application of the film blowing process to thermoplastics material comprising at least 70 wt high density polyethylene generally results in the production of a film which is translucent but which has an overall hazy appearance lacking optical clarity and having poor gloss characteristics. Attempts have been made in the past to improve the optical properties of high density polyethylene film, for example by casting the film through a slit die and then passing the film between chilled rolls, but in general such techniques are applicable only to relatively low molecular weight ie high melt index grades of high density polyethylene. Such materials exhibited poor mechanical properties and have met with little success. It is known that crystalline aggregates normally present in high density polyethylene scatter visible light and contribute to the overall hazy appearance of articles manufactured therefrom. However, it has now been found that, in relatively thin blown films, the contribution to the haze arising from light scattered by the crystalline aggregates becomes less significant as the film thickness decreases, and the degree of haze and lack of clarity have been found to arise predominantly from the surface characteristics of the film. It is an object of the present invention to provide thermoplastics film comprising at least 70 by weight of high density polyethylene wherein the film has improved optical properties, and to provide a process for the production of such film. Accordingly the present invention provides thermoplastics film having a thickness not greater than 100 micrometres fabricated from thermoplastics material comprising at least 70 by weight of high density polyethylene having a density not less than 935 kg m3, the high density polyethylene being A one or more ethylene homopolymers, B one or more ethylene hydrocarbon copolymers or C a blend of A and B, and the thermoplastics material as a whole having a density not less than 935 kg m3 and a melt index as herein defined of less than one, characterised in that the film has a total haze as herein defined of less than 50 and a clarity as herein defined of at least 25 . In a preferred embodiment the present invention provides thermoplastic film having a thickness in the range 15 25 micrometres fabricated from thermoplastics material comprising at least 70 by weight of high density polyethylene having a density not less than 935 kg m3, the high density polyethylene being AY one or more ethylenehomopolymers, B one or more ethylene hydrocarbon copolymers or C a blend of A and B, and the thermoplastics material as a whole having a density not less than 935 kg m3 and a melt index as herein defined of less than one characterised in that the film has a total haze as herein defined of less than 50 , a clarity as herein defined of at least 25 , and a dart impact as herein defined of at least 50 g. The terms melt index , total haze clarity , dart impact and Vicat softening temperature as used herein have the meanings set out in the following standard specifications melt index ASTM method D 1238, Condition E total haze ASTM D 1003 61 70, Procedure A clarity ASTM D 1746 70 dart impact ASTM D 1709 75 Vicat softening temperature BS 2782 120 A The thermoplastics film of the present invention has a thickness not greater than 100 pm, preferably not greater than 50 um. Films having a thickness not greater than 30 um, for example, in the range 5 20 pm, are particularly preferred. The thermoplastics material from which the film of the present invention is fabricated comprises at least 70 by weight of high density polyethylene, the balance, if any, being met by the presence of one or more compatible polymeric materials which do not deleteriously affect the properties of the high density polyethylene. Examples of suitable compatible polymeric materials are low density polyethylene ie polyethylene prepared by the high pressure process using a free radical initiator , linear low density polyethylene, polypropylene, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer EVA and ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymer. By linear low density polyethylene is meant an ethylene hydrocarbon copolymer having a density less than 935 kg m3. The thermoplastics film of the present invention preferably comprises at least 90 , most preferably at least 95 by weight of high density polyethylene. Thermoplastics film fabricated from 100 high density polyethylene is also preferred. The weight percentages recited throughout this specification in relation to the thermoplastics material and the high density polyethylene are inclusive of small quantities of conventional additives, for example antioxidants, optical brighteners and processing aids, which are normally present in moulding and extrusion grades of such polymers.Such additives are not normally present in amounts greater than about 1 by weight based on the weight of the thermoplastics film. The density of the thermoplastics material from which the film is fabricated is suitably in the range 935 to 967 kg m3 and preferably in the range 950 to 960 kg m3. Most preferably the thermoplastics material is 100 by weight high density polyethylene having a density in the range 935 to 960 kg m3, most preferably 947 to 957 kg m3. The high load melt index HLMI of the thermoplastics material from which the film of the present invention is fabricated is preferably in the range 4 to 25, most preferably in the range 6 to 15 as measured by ASTM method D 1238, condition F. The high density polyethylene constituting at least 70t weight of the thermoplastics material in the film of the present invention has a density not less than 935 kg m3, preferably a density in the range 950 to 960 kg m3. Preferred grades of high density polyethylene present in the film of the present invention are ethylene homopolymers and copolymers having an HLMI in the range 4 25, most preferably in the range 6 15. Examples of suitable high density ethylene copolymers are ethylene propylene, ethylene butene 1 and ethylene hexene l copolymers. Such copolymers having a density not less than 935 kg m3 will, in general, contain less than 10 weight percent of polymerised comonomer units. The high density polyethylene suitably has a weight average molecular weight of at least 125,000, preferably at least 200,000 and most preferably at least 250,000. The total haze of the thermoplastics film of the present invention is preferably less than 20t and more preferably less than 10 . Film having a total haze of 8 or less is particularly preferred. The present invention further provides a process for treating raw thermoplastics film manufactured by a film blowing process to provide film of thickness not greater than 100 pm having improved optical properties, wherein the thermoplastics material comprises at least 70 by weight of high density polyethylene being A one or more ethylene homopolymers, B one or more ethylene hydrocarbon copolymers or C a blend of A and B, and the thermoplastics material as a whole having a density not less than 935 kg m3 and a melt index as herein defined of not less than one, characterised in that the raw blown film is subjected to a surface pressure between two or more oppositely disposed surfaces at least one of which is a smooth surface, the subjecting being carried out at a temperature which is at least sufficient to cause plastic deformation of the thermoplastics under the action of the applied pressure SO that the smooth surface causes levelling of the film surface in contact therewith. By a smooth surface is meant throughout this specification a surface having a centre line average not greater than 0.1 pm, preferably not greater then 0.05 pm as measured using a Talysurf 4 instrument. Use of the Talysurf 4 to measure the surface finish of materials is described in Metrology for Engineers by Gallyer andShotbolt, 1972 Edition, Chapter 9 published by Cassell. The Talysurf 4 instrument is available from Rank Precision IndustriesLtd of Leicester, UK. The raw thermoplastics blown film employed in the process of the present invention is fabricated from any of the thermoplastics materials comprising at least 70 by weight of high density polyethylene as hereinbefore described. The raw thermoplastics film employed in the process of the present invention is manufactured by a film blowing process by which is meant that the film is produced by a process comprising continuously extruding a tube of the polyolefin from an annular die and inflating the tube under the action of internal gas pressure.Such processes are extensively described in the prior art. The thickness of the raw thermoplastics film employed in the process of the present invention is such that the produced final film having improved optical properties has a thickness not greater than 100 pm, preferably not greater than 50 pm and most preferably not greater than 20 pm. The raw thermoplastics film employed in the process of the present invention may be fully or partially molecularly orientated or may be substantially unorientated. It is preferred to employ film which is at least partially orientated. The degree of orientation of the film is determined inter alia by the nature of the polyolefin employed in the film blowing process and by the film blowing conditions as is well known in the art. The surface pressure is applied to the raw film in the process of the present invention by means of two or more oppositely disposed surfaces at least one of which is a smooth surface. The two or more oppositely disposed surfaces can be for example a pair of rollers or surfaces having substantially complementary profiles so that the film is subjected to substantially uniform pressure there between. A suitable smooth surface is provided, for example by a smooth roller such as, for example, a polished chromium plated roller or a roller coated with a smooth layer of PTFE, polyethylene terephthalate PET or other suitable synthetic plastics or by a flat or complementary profiled pressure plate having a smooth, preferably polished, surface, for example the polished chromium plated surface of a flat bed press or by combination of one or more smooth rollers bearing on a platform or by a pair of flexible sheets at least one of which has a smooth internal surface to contact the film and which are urged together, for example by one or more pairs of rollers or by the surfaces of a flat bed press. In the process of the present invention it is preferred to level both surfaces of the film.This may be achieved, for example by subjecting the film firstly to surface pressure between two or more oppositely disposed surfaces wherein one surface is smooth and the other surface or surfaces is matt to provide levelling of one surface of the film and then repeating the procedure to provide levelling of the other surface of the film.Alternatively both surfaces of the film can be levelled simultaneously, for example, by employing one or more pairs of oppositely disposed surfaces in which the opposite surfaces are both smooth. Preferably the two or more oppositely disposed surfaces are both smooth and are fabricated or finished in such a manner that they have a mirror like gloss. The surface pressure applied in the process of the present invention must be sufficient to cause plastic flow of the raw film under the temperature conditions employed. It is further preferred that the pressure should be at least sufficient to prevent any tendency the film may have to undergo shrinkage in the plane of the film. The pressure may be applied to the two oppositely disposed surfaces in any convenient manner.Under some circumstances sufficient pressure may be generated merely by sandwiching a sheet of the raw thermoplastics film between two smooth sheets of material having relatively high modulus, for example polished sheet steel, sheets of smooth thermoset plastics or other plastics material having a high softening temperature, placing the sheet sandwich in an oven and heating to a temperature sufficient to cause plastic flow and consequent levelling of the surface of the film under the pressure afforded by the weight of the smooth sheet. Alternatively, the sandwich can be rolled into a coil to provide additional pressure arising from the tendency of the coil to unwind. In the process of the present invention it is preferred that pressure is applied to the film by mechanical means which urge the two or more oppositely disposed surfaces toward one another or by means of mechanically driven rollers the surfaces of which squeeze the film and thereby cause the plastic deformation. To avoid the use of unduly high pressures in the process of the present invention it is preferred to heat the raw thermoplastics film to facilitate the plastic deformation thereof. For a particular operating pressure, the temperature conditions required for a particular raw thermoplastics film may readily be determined by trial and error techniques. Heating can be carried out by any desired means, for example, by preheating the film in an oven and then subjecting the heated film to pressure between the oppositely disposed surfaces or by simultaneously heating and applying the pressure to the film. Preferably the temperature to which the film is heated is not less than T 50 C, where T is the Vicat softening temperature of the polyolefin. When heating is employed in the process of the present invention it is preferred to allow the film to cool, or to positively cool the film, whilst it is still in contact with one or more smooth surfaces.Under some circumstances it may be found necessary to cool the film whilst pressure imparted by the oppositely disposed surfaces remains applied i to counteract any tendency of the film to shrink and or ii to reduce deformation of the surface due to internal shrinkage of the thermoplastics material and or iii to reduce relaxation of the orientation in an orientated raw thermoplastics film. Where it is desired to retain at least some orientation in an orientated raw thermoplastics film to which the process of the present invention is applied, the film must not be heated to a temperature above the crystalline melting point of the thermoplastics material. In a particularly preferred embodiment the present invention further provides a second process for treating a raw thermoplastics film of the type hereinbefore described to produce a film of thickness not greater than 100 pm having improved optical properties comprising sandwiching the raw film between two sheets of material having one or more smooth surfaces adjacent the film and removing any substantial gas voids trapped between the film and the sheets, heating the film to a temperature sufficiently high to permit plastic deformation of the film surface so that the film surfaces become levelled by contact with the smooth surfaces and cooling the levelled film. In the second process of the present invention the sheets of material having smooth surfaces are suitably sheets of a material having a relatively high modulus, for example, steel, stainless steel, chromium plated steel, thermoset resin or a thermoplastics resin having a higher softening temperature than the film material, for example, PET or polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE . In the second process of the present invention it is essential to achieve good contact between the smooth internal surfaces of the sheets and the raw film thus any substantial gas voids eg air voids between the film and the sheets can be removed, for example, by the use of a squeegee or roller to work such voids to the periphery of the sandwich . The presence of static electricity on the surface of the film and or sheets can assist in giving good contact, although under these circumstances it is particularly important to carry out the process in a dust free environment to avoid the attraction of dust particles to the film and or sheets. If desired, external pressure may be applied to urge the sheets together and thus give increased contact with the film. In the second process of the present invention, the raw film is suitably heated to a temperature not less than T 50 C where T is theVicat softening point. The heating may be carried out for any desired period of time which is at least sufficient to allow plastic deformation of the film surface. Thermoplastics film produced by the processes of the present invention has high clarity and improved gloss compared with the untreated film. The film is useful, for example in packaging applications, particularly for food packaging where high clarity is called for. This invention is further described with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawing Figure 1 which represents apparatus for manufacture of high density polyethylene film in accordance with the present invention. In Figure 1, a continuous length of slit HDPE film 1 is fed between two belts 2, 3 of Melinex RTM polyethylene terephthalate film which pass between heated rollers 4, 5 . The Melinex film had a centre line average Talysurf of 0.02 pm and a gloss of 125 units BS2782 515B . The HDPE film is Xm thick, the Melinex film has a thickness of Ypm and the nip is set at less than X 2Y pm. The rollers 4 and 5 are maintained at a temperature 500C below the Vicat softening temperature or greater. The film emerges from the rollers sandwiched between the Melinex belts where it is allowed to cool in zone 6. Finally the levelled film emerges from a pair of rollers 7 where it is stripped from the Melinex belts and spooled on drum 8.The film emerging from the rollers 7 has improved clarity and gloss and retains the good toughness associated with blown films. The invention is further illustrated in the following Examples.In the Examples the total haze, bulk haze and total surface haze were measured as follows 1. Total Haze This property was measured in accordance with ASTM D 1003 61 70Procedure A.2. Bulk Haze This property was measured by an adaptation of ASTM D 1003 61 70Procedure A whereby a liquid of suitable refractive index is used to substantially eliminate that part of the haze which is due to irregularities in the surface of the film. The liquid used was glycerol to which mercury iodide and potassium iodide had been added according to the equation Hg 12 2KI K2HgI4The refractive index of the resulting mixture is in the range 1.48 to 1.69 depending upon concentration. A liquid of refractive index 1.53 was prepared to be in agreement with the value for high density polyethylene. Drops of the liquid were placed onto clean, dry glass microscope slides. The high density polyethylene film specimen to be tested was sandwiched between the faces of the slides so that it was wetted by the liquid on both surfaces. After checking that no air bubbles were present in the liquid, the haze h1 of the complete sandwich was determined according to ASTM D 1003 Procedure A. In order to correct for the contribution to the haze caused by the glass slides, a similar experiment was performed but without the film specimen. The value recorded h2 which is generally less than 1 was subtracted from hl to give the bulk haze of the film h3 h3 hl h2 3. Total Surface Haze It has been found that the total haze present in films fabricated from thermoplastics materials of the type with which the present invention is concerned, and measured as defined above, arises from two sources. These are 1 the contribution arising from within the thermoplastics material, herein referred to as the bulk haze and 2 the contribution arising from the presence of irregularities on the two surfaces of the film, herein referred to as the total surface haze .This can be expressed in terms of the relationship Total surface haze total haze minus bulk haze The term total surface haze is defined as the total haze minus the bulk haze , wherein the total haze and the bulk haze are measured in accordance with the methods described herein. The total surface haze represents the sum of the haze contributions arising from each side of the film. It will be appreciated that the contribution to the total haze arising from the bulk haze for a given thermoplastics material will depend on the thickness of the film whereas the contribution arising from the total surface haze is substantially independent of the film thickness.Examples 1 and 2 Two grades of high density polyethylene film manufactured by the film blowing process were employed in these Examples. In Example 1 the film was based on an ethylene homopolymer having a density of 951 kg m3 and a HLMI of 9.8 and in Example 2 the film was based on an ethylene homopolymer having a density of 949 kg m3 and a HLMI of 8.0. In these Examples the film was sandwiched between sheets of Melinex Registered Trade Mark for ICI s polyethylene terephthalate sheet having a centre line average of 0.02 pm Talysurf and a gloss of 125 units and passed through the nip of a pair of rolls heated to 1054C set at a nip of 175 pm and spring loaded to provide a constant load on the sandwich.The sandwich comprising alternate layers ofMelinex and HDPE film 3 layers of Melinex and 2 layers of film was 190 pm thick. The film was passed through the nip at a rate of 0.4 metres per minute. The properties of the film as blown and after treatment in accordance with the process of the present invention are shown in theTable. It will be observed from the Table that the total haze has been reduced, and the gloss and tensile modulus have improved inExamples 1 and 2 whilst the other mechanical properties have remained substantially the same or suffered slight deterioration. In particular the combination of good optical properties and high impact resistance should be noted in Example 1. TABLE EMI13.1 SEP Film SEP as SEP blown SEP Film SEP treated SEP in tb SEP accordance SEP with SEP the SEP Test SEP Method tb SEP present SEP invention tb Property SEP Ex. SEP 1 SEP Ex. SEP 2 SEP Ex. SEP 1 SEP Ex. SEP 2 tb Thickness SEP m SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP Density SEP kg SEP m 3 SEP 951 SEP 949 SEP 955 SEP 953 SEP ES2782 SEP SEP 620D tb Gloss SEP Units SEP 7 SEP 7 SEP 85 SEP 94 SEP BS2782 SEP SEP 515B tb Total SEP Haze SEP SEP 82 SEP 75 SEP 8 SEP 6 SEP ASTM D 1003 tb Bulk SEP Haze SEP SEP SEP 2.7 SEP SEP 3.3 SEP Total SEP surface SEP haze SEP SEP SEP 72.3 SEP SEP 2.7 SEP By SEP subtraction tb Clarity SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 29 SEP 52 SEP ASTM SEP D1746 70 tb Dart SEP Impact SEP gms SEP 150 SEP 103 SEP 100 SEP 55 SEP ASTM SEP D1709 75 tb Elemendorf SEP mN SEP MD SEP 466 SEP 186 SEP 270 SEP 54 SEP Unnotched tb Tensile SEP strength SEP MD SEP 38.6 SEP 38.2 SEP 34.1 SEP 39.2 SEP ASTM SEP D882 75 tb Mpa tb Elongation SEP SEP MD SEP 486 SEP 394 SEP 191 SEP 268 SEP SEP tb Tensile SEP Modulus SEP MD SEP 903 SEP 831 SEP 952 SEP 894 SEP MPa tb Shrinkage SEP commat SEP 145 C SEP MD SEP 82 SEP 82 SEP 80 SEP 84 SEP tb SEP TD SEP 64 SEP 58 SEP 64 SEP 55 SEP Notes MN machine directionTD transverse direction measured by suspension in a hot air oven for 5 minutes