# 5 E 2 halovinyl 2 deoxyuridine derivatives, processes for their preparation, pharmaceutical compositions containing them, and their use in treating viral infections.

## Abstract
Compounds of formula I

## Claims
CLAINfS 1. A compound of formula I EMI45.1 in which one of RÚ or Rê is a group of formulaRCH X CO. , and the other is selected atom a hydrogen atom, a tri C1 6 alkylsilyl group, and a group of formula RCH X CO. wherein X is a halogen atom, a C1 6 alkyloxy group, a phenoxy group, a hydroxyl group, a tri C1 6 alkylsilyloxy group, or a group of formula EMI45.2 wherein V is a C1 6 alkyl group optionally substituted with halophenoxy, or is a phenyl group optionally substituted with halogen, nitro, C1 4 alkyl, hydroxy, amino, C1 6 alkylamino, N,N di C1 6 alkylsuphamoyl, or C14 alkyloxy, and R is a hydrogen atom, a C1 6 alkyl group, a phenyl group, a benzyl group, or a phenyl or benzyl group substituted in the aromatic ring with halo, nitro, C1 4 alkyl, hydroxy, amino,C1 6alkylamino, or C1 4 a3kyloxy R3 is a hydrogen atom, a C1 6 alkanoyl group, a benzoyl group or a benzoyl group substituted with halo, nitro, C14 alkyl, hydroxy, amino, N,N di C1 6 alkylsulphamoyl, C16 alkylamino, or C14 alkyloxy and Y is a halogen atom, 2. A compound according to claim 1, wherein Y is a bromine atom. 3. A compound according to claim 1 or 2, wherein X is a chlorine atom or is a hydroxy group. 4. A compound according to claim l or 2, wherein X is a C16 alkoxy group. 5. A compound according to claim 1 or 2, wherein X is a group VCO.O as defined in claim 1. 6. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein R3 is a hydrogen atom. 7. A compound according to claim l, selected from E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 trimethylsilyl 5 4 dipropyl sulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 3 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyl E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 t butyldimethyl silyloxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 L 2 hydroxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovlnyl 3 ,5 bls L 2 hydroxy 3 phenyl propionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 2 chlorophenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 chlorophenylacetyl 2 deOxy uridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 chlorophenylacetyl 2 deoxyurid ine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 L hydroxyphenylacetyl 2 deoxyurid ine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 L hydroxyphenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 L 2 hydroxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 hydroxy 4 methylpent anoyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 methoxyacetyl 2 de xyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis methoxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 D hydroxyphenylacetyl 2 deoxyurid ine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 D hydroxyphenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis chloroacetyl 2 deOxy uridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 5 2 bromovinyl 3 chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 chloropropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 chloropropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 4 dipropylsulphamoyl benzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzOyloxy acetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzOyloxy acetyl 2 deoxyurldine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 4 chlorophenoxy 2 methylpropionyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 acetoxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 valeryloxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 benzoyloxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzOyl oxy propionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 bromobutyryl 2 deoxy uridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 bromobutyryl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 phenoxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine and E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis phenoxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine. 8. A process for preparing a compound as claimed in claim 1, which comprises treating a compound of formula II EMI49.1 in which Y is as defined in formula 1 , claim 1, R4 is a hydrogen atom, ir a tri C1 6 alkylsilyl group, with an acylating agent of formula III EMI49.2 in which Z is a good leaving group, and R and X are as defined in claim 1, provided that when X is a hydroxyl group it is a protected hydroxyl group, and optionally thereafter deprotecting the product. 9. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 7 in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 10. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 7, or a composition according to claim 9, for use in the treatment of viral infections.

## Description
5 E 2 HALOVINYL 2 DEOXYURIDINE DERIVATIVES, PROCESSES FOR THEIR PREPARATION, PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING THEM, AND THEIR USE IN TREATING VIRAL INFECTIONS This invention relates to certain 2 deoxyuridine compounds which have antiviral activity. European Published Patent Specification No. 61283 discloses certain mono and di esters of 5 E 2bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine which have antiviral activity, particularly against herpes viruses. We have now found a group of mono , di and trisubstituted 5 2 halogenovinyl 2 deoxyuridines which have antiviral activity, and which are useful in the treatment of infections caused by herpes viruses, such as herpes simplex type 1, herpes simplex type 2 and varicella. According to the present invention there is provided a compound of formula I EMI2.1 in which one of R1 or R2 is a group of formula RCH X CO. , and the other is selected from a hydrogen atom, a tr Ci 6 alkylsilyl group, and a group of formula RCH X CO.wherein X is a halogen atom, a C1 6 alkyloxy group, a phenoxy group, a hydroxyl group, a tri C1 6 alkylsilyloxy group, or a group of formula EMI2.2 wherein V is a C1 6 alkyl group optionally substituted with halophenoxy, or is a phenyl group optionally substituted with halogen, nitro, C1 4 alkyl, hydroxy, amino, C1 6 alkylamino, N,N di C1 6 alkylsuphamoyl, C14 alkyloxy, and R is a hydrogen atom, a C1 6 alkyl group, a phenyl group, a benzyl group, or a phenyl or benzyl group substituted in the aromatic ring with halo, nitro, C1 4 alkyl, hydroxy, amino,C1 6 alkylamino, or C14 alkyloxy R3 is a hydrogen atom, a C1 6 alkanoyl group, a benzoyl group or a benzoyl group substituted with halo, nitro, C14 alkyl, hydroxy, amino, N,N di C1 6 alkylsulphamoyl, C16 alkylamino, or C1 4 alkyloxy and Y is a halogen atom, Suitably, X is a halogen atom, preferably a chlorine atom, a hydroxyl group, a C16 alkyloxy group or a group VCO.O as defined above. Preferably Y is a bromine atom. Suitably R3 is a hydrogen atom. Examples of compounds of the invention are as follows E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 chloropropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 chloropropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 4 dipropylsulphamoyl benzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxy acetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxy acetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 4 chlorophenoxy 2methylpropionyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 acetoxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 valeryloxypropionyl 2 deoxyurid ine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 benzoyloxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxy propionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 trimethylsilyl 5 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 3 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyl E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 L 2 t butyldimethyls ilyloxy 3phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 t butyldimethyl silyloxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 L 2 hydroxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 hydroxy 3 phenyl propionyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 2 chlorophenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 chlorophenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 chlorophenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 L hydroxyphenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 L hydroxyphenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 L 2 hydroxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 hydroxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 methoxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis methoxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 D hydroxyphenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 D hydroxyphenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 L 2 t butyldimethylsilylOxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 t butyldimethyl silyloxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 bromobutyryl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 bromobutyryl 2 deoxyuridine E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 phenoxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine and E 5 2 bromovlnyl 3 r 5 bis phenoxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine. Compounds of formula I wherein R1, R2 and Y are as defined and R3 is a hydrogen atom may be prepared by treating a compound of formula II EMI5.1 in which Y is as defined in formula I , R4 is a hydrogen atom or a trl C1 6 alkylsilyl group, with an acylating agent of formula III EMI5.2 in which Z is a good leaving group, such as a halogen atom, and R and X are as defined in formula I , provided X is not a hydroxyl group. The reaction bs suitably carried out in an anhydrous polar solvent, such as anhydrous dioxane, at room temperature in the presence of an amine base, preferably triethylamine. The reaction will generally yield a mixture of products wherein i only one of R1 and R2 is a group RCH. X .CO. and ii both R1 and R2 are groups of formula RCH. X .CO. and the products can be separated by, for example, column chromatography on silica gel. The acylating agents of formula III are either known compounds or can be prepared from known compounds by conventional means. Compounds of formula II , wherein R4 is a tri C16 alkylsilyl group may be prepared by treating a compound of formula II , wherein 24 is a hydrogen atom i.e. a 5 2 halogenovinyl 2 deoxyuridinelwith a triC1 6 alkyl silylating agent, such as t butyldimethylsllylchloride or t butyldiphenylsilylchloride in which case the silylation reaction is preferably carried out in an anhydrous polar organic solvent, suitably tetrahydrofuran, at room temperature. 5 2 Halogenovinyl 2 deoxyuridines are disclosed in UK Patent Specification No. 1,601,020. Compounds of formula I , in which R1, R2 and Y are as defined, R3 is a hydrogen atom, and X is a hydroxyl group, may be prepared by treating the compound of formula II , as defined above, with a compound of formula III , in which X is a protected hydroxyl group and R and Z are as defined, and subsequently deprotecting the product. The reaction is suitably carried out in an anhydrous polar organic solvent, preferably at room temperature, and the product may be purified by, for example, column chromatography on silica gel. This reaction will, as in the previous reaction, generally give a mixture of products which can be separated chromatographically. Intermediate compounds of formula III in which both X and Z are protected hydroxyl groups may be prepared by treating the corresponding a hydroxycarboxylic acid i.e. a compound of formula III , wherein X and Z are both hydroxyl groups with a conventional protecting agent, such as a suitable silylating agent, preferably t butyldimethylchlorosilane or N,O bistrimethylsilylacetamide. Preferably, when t butyldimethylchlorosilane is used as the silylating agent, the O protection reaction is carried out in an anhydrous polar organic solvent, such as dimethylformamide, suitably in the presence of an amine base, preferably imidazole. When N,O bistrimethylsilylacetamide is the silylating agent, the reaction is preferably carried out in tetrahydrofuran. The desired intermediate compounds of formula III wherein Z is a leaving group and X is a protected hydroxyl group may then be prepared by treating the di O protected hydroxycarboxylic acid with a suitable reagent for formation of the acid halide. For example, compounds of formula III in which X is a protected hydroxyl group and Z is a chlorine atom may be prepared by treating the bis silylated hydroxycarboxylic acid with oxalyl chloride. The deprotection of the O protected compound of formula I , may be carried out under acidic conditions, such as hy treatment with acetic acid. Compounds of formula I , wherein R1, R2 and Y are as defined and R3 is a Ci 6 alkylcarbonyl, benzoyl, or a substituted benzoyl as defined above, may be prepared by treating a 3 ,5 O substituted compound of formula I , as defined above, with an acylating agent of formula IV R5.COZ IV wherein Z is as defined in formula III and R5 is a C16 alkyl group, or is a phenyl group optionally substituted with halo, nitro, Cl 4 alkyl,protected hydroxy, N protected amino, N,N di C16 alkylsulphamoyl, C1 6 alkylamino, or C14 alkyloxy, and optionally deprotecting the product. Suitably Z is a halogen atom, preferably chlorine. The reaction is conveniently carried out in an anhydrous polar solvent, such as dioxane and in the presence of an amine, suitably triethylamine. Suitable O protecting agents, useful in the preparation of compounds of formula I , wherein R3 is a group R5COr, include silylating agents , such asN,O bistrimethylsilylacetamide, and in which case the silylation reaction is preferably carried out in an anhydrous polar organic solvent, suitably tetrahydrofuran, at room temperature. The removal of the Q protecting silyl groups may be performed using conventional procedures, suitably by partitioning the silylated compound between chloroform and dilute hydrochloric acid. When the O protecting group is a tri C16 alkylsilyl group, then deprotection of the product is an optional step, since the silylated product is itself a compound of formula I . Compounds of formula I may be converted into further compounds of formula I . For example, in the case of compounds of formula I , wherein R1, R2 and Y are as defined, X is a halogen atom, and R3 is a hydrogen atom, X may be converted to aEMI9.1 group wherein V is as defined in formula I , by treatment with a carboxylic acid of formula VCO2H in the presence of a base. A preferred base is an amine, suitably a tertiary amine, such as triethylamine. The reaction is conveniently carried out in a polar organic solvent such as dimethylformamide, and the product purified by column chromatography, on silica gel. Further compounds of formula I wherein R3 and Y are as defined in relation to formula I , and R1 or R2 is a tri Cl6 alkylsilyl group and or where the remaining substituent, R1 or R2, is a group RCH. X Ca , wherein R is as defined in relation to formula I , andX is a tri C16 alkylsilyloxy group, may be prepared by treatment of the corresponding mono or dihydroxy compound of formula I with a tri C16 alkyl silylating agent, as described above. The compounds of formula I contain an additional asymmetric centre in the group s RCH X CO. A stereospecific synthesis of a compound of formula I may be effected by using an optically pure acylating agent of formula III . The compounds of formula I may be formulated for use in a pharmaceutical composition. Accordingly, in a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound of the formula I together with a pharmaceutcally acceptable carrier or excipient. Compositions which may be given by the oral route may be compounded in the form of syrups, tablets and capsules. When the composition is in the form of a tablet, any pharmaceutical carrier suitable for formulating such solid compositions may be used, for example, magnesium stearate, starch, lactose, glucose, rice, flour, and chalk. The composition may also be in the form of an ingestible capsule, for example of gelatin, to contain the compound, or in the form of a syrup, a solution, or a suspension. Suitable liquid pharmaceutical carriers include ethyl alcohol, glycerine, saline, and water to which flavouring or colouring agents may be added. The compounds may also be presented with a sterile liquid carrier for injection. The liquid carrier suitably may be a sterile oil or sterile water. The composition may also be formulated for topical application to the skin or eyes. For topical application to the sin, the compounds of the invention may be made up into a cream, lotion or ointment. These formulations may be conventional formulations well known in the art, for example, as described in standard books of pharmaceutics and cosmetics, such as Harry sCosmeticology published by Leonard Hill Books, and theBritish Pharmacopaeia. The composition for application to the eyes may be a conventional eye drop composition well known in the art. Preferably, the compositions of this invention are in unit dosage form or in some other form that the patient may administer to himself a single dose. A suitable dosage unit might contain from 50 mg to 1 g of active ingredient, for example 100 to 500 mg. Such doses may be administered 1 to 4 times a day or more usually 2 or 3 times a day. The effective dose of compound depends on the particular compound employed, but is in general in the range of from 1.0 to 20 mg kg of body weight per day or more usually 2.0 to 10 mg kg day. Accordingly, the present invention further provides a method for treating mammals, including humans, suffering from viral infections, which comprises administering to the sufferer a pharmaceutically effective, non toxic, amount of a compound of formula I . The following Examples illustrate compounds of the invention, and the Description illustrate intermediate compounds. Example 1E 5 2 Bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine To dry dioxane 25ml containing 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 2.7ml, 18mmol was added chloroacetyl chloride 2.9ml, 36mmol followed by E 5 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 2.0g, 6mmol . The solution was stirred for 0.5 hour at room temperature. Excess reagent was quenched by addition of ice and the solution was then partitioned between dilute hydrochloric acid and chloroform. The organic layer was washed with aqueous bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel, eluting with chloroform methanol 100 1 to give E 5 2 oovinyl 3 ,5 bis chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine as a crystalline solid 2.4g, 838 , m.p. 113 1150C. vmax KBr 3080 NH , 1750,1710,1680 C O cml 1H nmr CDCl3 2.43 2H, m, 2 CH.2 , 4.17 2H, s, CH2C1 , 4.22 2H, s, CH2C1 , 4.36 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.53 2H, m, 5 CH2 , 5.38 1H, m, 3 CH , 6.33 1H, dd, J 6Hz and J 9Hz, 1 CH , 6.83 1H, d, J 14Hz,CH CHBr , 7.48 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.53 1H, s, 6 CH , 9.6 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 37.44 H, 3.20 N, 5.57 C15H15BrC12N207 requires C, 37.06 H, 3.11 N, 5.76 . Examples 2 and 3 E 5 2 Brotrovinyl 5 chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine Example 2 andE 5 2 Bromovinyl 3 chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine Example 3 To E 5 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 3.33g, 10mmol in dry dioxane 30ml was added triethylamine 1.68ml, 12mmol followed by chloroacetyl chloride 0.96ml, 12mmol and the mixture stirred overnight at room temperature. Any excess reagent was quenched by addition of water and the mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid. The organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroforrtrmethanol mixtures.The first compound to elute was E 5 2 bramnTinyl 3 chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine which was isolated as a colourless foam 80mg, 2 . vmax KBr 3440, 3060, 1700, 1600 cm 1H nmr CD3 2SO 2.30 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 3.66 2H, m, 5 CH2 , 4.07 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.43 2H, s, CH2C1 , 5.33 2H, m, 1H D20 exchangeable, 3 CH and 5 OH , 6.17 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 CH , 6.83 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.21 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 8.07 1H, s, 6 CH , 11.59 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 38.82 H, 2.84 N, 6.10 C13H14BrClN2O6 requires C, 38.12 H, 3.45 N, 6.84 . The second compound to elute was E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 chloro acetyl 2 deoxyuridine which was isolated as a white crystalline solid 0.85g, 21 , m.p. 152 155 C.vmax KBr 3440, 3060, 1700, 1600 cm 1. 1H nmr CD3 2SO 6 2.20 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 CH , 3.98 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.32 3H, m, 3 CH and 5 OH2 , 4.42 2H, s, CH2Cl , 5.42 1H, d, J 4Hz, D2O exchangeable, 3 OH , 6.17 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 CH , 6.92 1H, d,J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.32 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.75 1H, s, 6 CH , 11.58 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 38.25 H. 3.31 N, 6.70 C13H14BrClN2O6 requires C, 38.12 H, 3.45 N, 6.84 ExamPles 4 and 5E 5 2 Bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 chloropropionyl 2 deoxyuridine Example 4 and E 5 2 Bromovinyl 5 2 chloropropionyl 2 deoxyuridine Example 5 To an ice cooled solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 5.0g, 15mmol in dry pyridine 15ml and dry dioxane 15ml was added 2 chloropropionyl chloride 1.57ml, 18mmol and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour.The solution was partitioned between ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sul. pnate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography eluting with chloroforttrrtethanol mixtures. The first compound to elute was E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 chloro propionyl 2 deoxyuridine which was isolated as a white crystalline solid 1.9g, 25 , m.p. 158 1600C.vmax KBr 3430, 3000, 1750, 1710, 1600 cm 1. 1H nnr CD3 2SO 6 1.61 3H, d, J 7Hz, CH3 , 1.64 3H, d, J 7Hz, CH3 , 2.50 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 4.40 3H, m, 4 CH and 5 CH2 , 4.77 2H, q, J 7Hz, 2 x ClCH Me CO , 5.36 1H, m, 3 CH , 6.19 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 CH 7.26 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.35 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.84 1H, s, 6 CH , 11.73 1H, s, D20 exchangeable 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 39.78 H, 3.55 N, 5.22 C17H19BrCl2N2O7 requires C, 39.71 H, 3.72 N, 5.45 . The second compound to elute was E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 chloro propionyl 2 deoxyuridine which was isolated as a white crystalline solid 2.5g, 40 , m.p. 166 173 C.vmax KBr 3480, 3070, 1740, 1690, 1600 cm 1. 1H nmr CD3 2SO 6 1.58 3H, d, J 7Hz, CH3 , 2.21 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 CH2 , 3.95 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.31 3H, m, 3 CH and 5 CH2 , 4.74 1H, q, J 7Hz, ClCH Me CO , 5.43 1H, d, J 4Hz, D20 exchangeable, 3 OH , 6.18 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 CH , 6.93 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.33 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.77 1H, s, 6 CH , 11.65 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH . AnalysisFound C, 39.55 H, 3.65 N, 6.44 . C14H16BrClN2O6 requires C, 39.69 H, 3.81 N, 6.618.Example 6E 5 2 Bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 486mg, 1.0mmol in dimethylformamide 10ml was added 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoic acid 1.42g, 5mmol followed by triethyl amine 0.70ml, 5mmol and the solution stirred for 18 hours at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between chloroform and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was wasned with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chramatography on silica gel, eluting with hexane chloroform mixtures to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine as a colourless foam 0.79g, 77 . max CH3OH 229 29.2 x 103 and 250 33.2 x 103 nm. vmax KBr 2960, 1770, 1740, 1600 cm . H nmr CDCl3 6 0.98 12H, t, J 7Hz, 4 x CH3 , 1.55 8H, sextet, J 7Hz, 4 x CCH2C , 2.30 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 3.12 8H, t, J 7Hz, 4 x NCH2 , 4.34 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.57 2H, m, 5 CH2 , 4.91 2H, s, OCH2CO , 4.94 2H, s, OCH2CO 5.38 1H, m, 3 CH , 6.21 1H, dd, J 6Hz and J 8Hz, 1 CH , 6.72 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.42 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.50 1H, s, 6 CH , 7.9 8.3 8H, m, 2 x C6H4 , 9.39 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 NH .Analysis Found C, 49.87 H, 5.11 N, 5.55 C41H51BrN4O15S2 requires C, 50.05 H, 5.22 N, 5.69 .Example 7E 5 2 Bromovinyl 5 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 410mg 1.0mmol in dimethylformamide 6ml was added 4 dipropylsulphanoyl benzoic acid 0.86g, 3mmol followed by triethylamine 0.42ml, 3mmol and the solution was left for 20 hours at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between chloroform and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel, eluting with chloroformmethanol mixtures to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 4 dipropylsulpharroyl benzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine as a white crystalline solid 0.35g, 53 , m.p. 174 1760C. max CH3OH 250 23.5 x 103 and 285 e 13.7 x 103 nm. 9max KBr 3500, 2980, 1730, 1690 cm H nmr CD3 2SO 6 0.82 6H, t, J 7Hz, 2 x CH3 , 1.48 4H, sextet, J 7Hz, 2 x CCH2C , 2.20 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 CH2 , 3.07 4H, t, J 7Hz, 2 x NCH2 , 4.00 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.28 1H, m, 3 CH , 4.40 2H, m, 5 CH2 , 5.04 2H, s, OCH2CO , 5.5 1H, broad, D20 exchangeable, 31 OH , 6.21 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 OH , 6.95 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.35 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CBr , 7.81 1H, s, 6 OH , 8.C 8.3 4H, m, C6H4 , 11.7 1H broad, D2O exchangeable, 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 47.43 H, 4.92 N, 6024 . C26H32BrN3O10S requires C, 47.42 H, 4.90 N, 6.38 .Example 8E 5 2 Bromovinyl 3 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 120mg, 0.3mmol in dimethylformamide 2ml was added 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoic acid 285mg, 1.0mmol followed by triethylamine 0.14ml, 1. OttErol and the solution was left for 18 hours at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between chloroform and water and the organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel, eluting with chloroform methanol 100 1 to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine as a colourless foam 100mg, 508 . vmax KBr 2970, 1710, 1600 cm 1. 1H nmr CD3 2SO 0.81 6H, t, J 7Hz, 2 x CH3 , 1.48 4H, sextet, J 7Hz, 2 x CCH2C , 2.35 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 2.90 4H, t, J 7Hz, 2 x NCH2 , 3.64 2H, m, 5 CH2 , 4.09 1H, m, 4 OH , 5.04 2H, s, OCH2CO , 5.25 1H, t, J 5Hz, D20 exchangeable, 5 OH , 5.35 1H, m, 3 CH , 6.17 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 CH , 6.83 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.27 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 8.06 1H, s, 6 CH , 7.9 8.3 4H, m, C6H4 , 11.60 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 47.34 H, 4.93 N, 6.24 . C26H32BrN3O10S requires C, 47.42 H, 4.90 N, 6.38 . Example 9E 5 2 Bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 4 chlorophenoxy 2 methylpropionyloxy acetyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis chloroacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 486mg, 1.0mmol in dimethylformamide 5ml was added 2 4 chlorophenoxy 2 methylpropionic acid 1.07g, 5mmol followed by triethylamine 0.7ml, Snrtol and the solution was left for 18 hours at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between chloroform and water and the organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel, eluting with chloroform hexane mixtures to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 4 chlorophenoxy 2 methylpropionyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine as a colourless foam 640mg, 76 . Amax CH30H 226 E 29.0 x 103 , 249 e 14.3 x 10 and 286 e 12.6 x 103 nm. vmax KBr 3000, 1750, 1590 cm 1. 1H nmr CDCl3 1.64 12H, s, 2 x C CH3 2 , 2.30 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 4.26 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.48 2H, m, 5 CH2 , 4.74 4H, s, 2 x OCH2CO , 5.31 1H, m, 3 CH , 6.18 1H, dd, J 6Hz and J 8Hz, 1 CH , 6.73 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 6.8 7.3 8H, m, 2 x C6H4 , 7.42 1H, s, 6 CH , 7.47 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 9.30 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH . Analysis Found C, 49.64 H, 4.22 N, 3.62 . C35H35BrCl2N2O13 requires C, 49.90 H, 4.19 N, 3.33 . Example 10 E 5 2 Bromovinyl 5 2 acetoxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 chloropropionyl 2 deoxyuridine 424mg, 1.0mmol in dimethylformamide 5ml were added potassium acetate 294mg, 3.Ortrrol and 18 crown 6 0.79g, 3mmol and the solution was stirred for 5 days at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water and the organic layer was then dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroforrtrmethanol mixtures to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 acetoxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine as a colourless foam 317mg, 71 .vmax KBr 3450, 3080, 1710, 1600 cm 1. 1H nmr CD3 2SO 1.38 3H, d, J 7Hz, CHCH3 , 2.06 3H, s, COCH3 , 2.17 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 OH2 , 3.94 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.26 3H, m, 3 OH and 5 CH2 , 4.8 1H, broad, D20 exchangeable, 3 OH , 5.00 1H, q, J 7Hz, OCH Me CO , 6.16 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 OH , 6.92 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.32 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.76 1H, s, 6 CH , 11.66 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 42.13 H, 4.25 N, 6.03 . C16H19BrN2O8 requires C, 42.97 H, 4.28 N, 6.25 . M.s. observed 446.0306 M theoretical 446.0322 .Example 11E 5 2 Bromovinyl 5 2 valeryloxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 chloropropionyl 2 deoxyuridine 424mg, 1.0mmol in dimethylformamide 4ml was added valeric acid 0.33ml, 3.0mmol followed by triethylamine 0.42ml, 3.0mmol and the solution was stirred at 60 700C for 21 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue taken up in ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtrues. E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 valeryloxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine was eluted as two optical isomers.The first isomer to elute was isolated as a colourless foam 115mg, 23 . vmax CHCl3 3620, 3400, 2970, 1720 cm 1. 1H nmr CD3 2SO 6 0.82 3H, t, J 6Hz, CH2 3CH3 , 1.1 1.7 7H, m, CH2CH2CH2CH3 andOCH CH3 CO , 2.23 4H, m, CH2 CH2 2CH3 and 2 CH2 , 3.91 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.25 3H, m, 3 CH and 5 CH2 , 5.00 1H, q, J 7Hz,OCH Me CO , 5.40 1H, d, J 4Hz, D2O exchangeable, 3 CH , 6.16 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 OH , 6.91 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.31 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.75 1H, s, 6 CH . AnalysisFound C, 46.64 H, 5.03 N, 5.558. C19H25BrN2O8 requires C, 46.64 H, 5.15 N, 5.738. The second isomer to elute was isolated as a colourless foam 85rrg, 18 .vmax CHCl3 3620, 3400, 2970, 1720 cm 1. 1H nmr CD3 2SO 6 0.83 3H, t, J 6Hz, CH2 3CH3 , 1.1 1.7 7H, m, CH2CH2CH2CH3 andOCH CH3 CO , 2.23 4H, m, CH2 CH2 2CH3 and 2 CH2 , 3.91 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.25 3H, m, 3 OH and 5 CH2 , 4.99 1H, q, J 7Hz,OCH Me CO , 5.41 1H, d, J 4Hz, D2O exchangeable, 3 OH , 6.17 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 CH , 6.91 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.32 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.73 1H, s, 6 CH , 11.67 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 46.30 H, 4.72 N, 5.63 . C19H25BrN2O8 requires C, 46.64 H, 5.15 N, 5.73 .Example 12E 5 2 Bromovinyl 5 2 benzoyloxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of e 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 chloropropionyl 2 deoxyuridine 424mg, 1.0mmol in dimethylformamide 4ml was added benzoic acid 0.37g, 3.Omtol followed by triethylamine 0.42ml, 3.0rmol and the solution was stirred at 60 70 C for 18 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue taken up in ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by colum chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 benzoyloxypropionyl 2 deoxyuridine as a colourless foam 408mg, 80 . max CH3OH 231 21.2 x 10 and 290 10.1 x 10 nm.vmax KBr 3460, 3070, 1720, 1600 cm 1. 1H nmr CD3 2SO 1.56 3H, d, J 7Hz, CH3 , , 2.17 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 3.99 1H, m, 4 OH , 4.33 3H, m, 3 CH and 5 CH2 , 5.1 1H, broad, D20 exchangeable, 3 OH , 5.28 and 5.31 total 1H, each q, J 7Hz,OCH Me CO , 6.16 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 CH , 6.91 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.32 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.5 8.0 6H, m, C6H5 and 6 CH , 11.58 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 48.96 H, 3.93 N, 5.31 . C21H21BrN2O8 requires C, 49.52 H, 4.16 N, 5.508. Example 13E 5 2 Bromovinyl 5 2 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxy propionyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 chloropropionyl 2 deoxyuridine 424mg, 1.0mmol in dimethylformamide 4ml was added 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoic acid 0.85g, 3mmol followed by triethylamine 0.42ml, 3mmol and the the solution was stirred at 60 70 C for 19 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue taken up in ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was twice washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate,, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 4 dipropyl sulphamoylbenzoyloxy propionyl 2 deoxyuridine as a colourless foam 524mg, 782 . max CH3OH 250 e 23.1 x 103 and 279 e 13.9 x 103 flirt. max CHCl3 3620, 3400, 1760, 1720 cm 1. 1H nmr CD3 2SO 0.79 6H, t, J 7Hz, 2 x CH2CH2CH3 , 1.2 1.6 7H, m, 2 x CH2CH2CH3 andOCH CH3 CO , 2.16 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 3.04 4H, t, J 7Hz, 2 x NCH2 , 3.97 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.32 3H, m, 3 CH and 5 CH2 , 4.80 1H, broad,D2O exchangeable, 3 OH , 5.31 and 5.34 total 1H, each q, J 7Hz,OCH Me CO , 6.16 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 CH , 6.83 1H, d, J 13Hz,CH CHBr , 7.30 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.76 1H, s, 6 CH , 7.9 8.3 4H, m, C6H4 , 11.68 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 48.01 H, 5.09 N, 6.16 . C27H34BrN3O10S requires C, 48.22 H, 5.10 N, 6.25 . Example 14E 5 2 Bromovinyl 3 trimethylsilyl 5 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyl oxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 4 dipropylsulphamoyl benzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 0.92g, 1.4mool in dry dioxane 30ml was added N,O bis trimethylsilyl acetamide 1.1ml and the solution was stirred for 0.5 hour at room temperature. The solvent was removed to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 trimethylsilyl 5 4 dipropylsulphamoyl benzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine as a clear oil. H nmr CDC13 6 0.10 9H, s, Si CH3 3 , 0.85 6H, t, J 7Hz, 2 x CCH3 , 1.55 4H, sextet, J 7Hz, 2 x CCH2C , 2.20 2H, m, 2 CH , 3.10 4H, t,J 7Hz, 2 x NCH2 , 4.17 2H, m, 3 OH and 4 CH , 4.41 2H, m, 5 CH2 , 4.88 2H, s, CCH2CO , 6.16 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 CH , 6.69 1H, d,J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.39 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.46 1H, s, 6 CH , 7.8 8.3 4H, m, C6H4 , 9.3 1H, broad, 3 NH .Example 15 3 4 Dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyl E 5 2 bromvinyl 5 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 trimethylsilyl 5 4dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 0.90g, 1.25mmol in dry dioxane 20ml , was added 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyl chloride 8mmol in dry dioxane 10ml followed by triethylamine 1.12ml, 8mmol and the solution stirred for 7 hours at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between chloroform and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel, eluting with chloroformmethanol mixtures to give 3 4 dipropylsulphamoylbenzoyl E 5 2 ovinyl 5 4 dipropylsulphatoylbenzoyloxyacetyl 2 deoxyuridine as a foam 80mg, 9 . vmax CHCl3 2970, 1760, 1730, 1710, 1670 cm 1. 1H nmr CD3 2SO 0.80 12H, t, J 7Hz, 4 x CH3 , 1.48 8H, sextet, J 7Hz, 4 x CCH2C , 2.31 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 3.08 8H, t, J 7Hz, 4 x NCH2 , 4.02 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.40 3H, m, 3 CH and 5 OH2 , 5.04 2H, s, CCH2CO , 5.47 1H, d, J 4Hz, 3 OH , 6.16 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 CH , 6.99 1H, d,J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.24 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.9 8.3 9H, m, 2 x C6H4 and 6 CH . AnalysisFound C, 50.85 H, 5.22 N, 5.91 . C39H49BrN4O13S2 requires C, 50.59 H, 5.33 N, 6.05 . Example 16E 5 2 Bromovinyl 5 L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of t butyldimethylsilyl L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy3 phenylpropionate 1.78g, 4.5mmol in dry dichloromethane 5.5ml containing dimethylformamide 1 drop at 0 C was added oxalyl chloride 0.45ml, 5.1mmol . The solution was stirred at toom temperature for 3 hours and the solvent was then removed. To the residue was added a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 1.35, 4.0mmol in dry tetrahydrofuran 4.5ml and dry pyridine 4.5ml , and the solution then stirred for 45 minutes at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between chloroform and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine as a white crystalline solid 1.42g, 60 , m.p. 130 1320C. max CH3OH 250 e 14.6 x 103 and 293 e 11.8 x 103 nm. 1H nmr CD3 2SO 0.26 3H, s, SiCH3 , 0.13 3H, s, SiCH3 , 0.72 9H, s, C CH3 3 , 2.20 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 CH , 2.6 3.1 2H, m, PhCH2 , 3.96 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.30 4H, m, OCH CH2Ph CO, 3 CH and 5 OH2 , 5.42 1H, d, J 4Hz, 3 OH , 6.29 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 OH , 6.95 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.27 5H, s, C6H5 , 7.39 1H, d,J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.83 1H, s, 6 OH , 11.68 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH . AnalysisFound C, 52.56 H, 6.01 N, 4.74 . C26H35BrN2O7Si requires C, 52.43 H, 5.92 N, 4.70 . Example 17E 5 2 Bromovinyl 5 L 2 hydroxy 3 phnylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine A solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 51 L 2 t butyldiinethylsilyloxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine 0.89g, 1.5mmol in 80 acetic acid 50ml was stirred at 90 C. After 3 hours the solvent was removed.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 L 2 hydroxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine as a white crystalline solid 0.47g, 65 , m.p. 141 143.5 C. max CH3OH 249 14.4 x 103 and 292 e 11.7 x 103 nm.vmax KBr 3410, 3060, 1730, 1700, 1660 cm 1H nmr CD3 2SO 2.16 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 CH2 , 2.6 3.1 2H, m, PhCH2 , 3.94 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.23 4H, m, CCH CH2Ph CO, 3 CH and 5 CH2 , 5.38 1H, broad, D2O exchangeable, 3 OH , 5.64 1H,d, J 6Hz, D2O exchangeable PhCH2CHOH , 6.19 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 CH , 6.95 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.25 7.45 6H, m, C6H5 and CH CHBr , 7.83 1H, s, 6 CH , 11.67 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 NH .AnalysisFound C, 50.01 H, 4.33 N, 5.77 . C20H21BrN2O7 requires C, 49.91 H, 4.40 N, 5.82 . Example 18E 5 2 Bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of t butyldimethylsilyl L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 phenylpropionate 3.15g, 8.0mmol in dry dichloromethane 10mL containing dimethylformamide 2 drops at 0 C was added oxalyl chloride 0.81mL. 9.2mmol . The solution was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and the solvent was removed. To the residue was added a solution of E 5 2 bromivinyl 2 deoxyuridine 1.20g, 3.6mmol in dry tetrahydrofuran 4mL and dry pyridine 4mL and the resulting solution stirred for 1 hour. The solution was partitioned between chloroform and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was further extracted with aqueous sodium bicarbonate dried MgSO4 and the solvent removed.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform hexane mixtures to give E 5 2 bromivinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine as a colourless foam 2.02g, 65 umax KBr 3390, 2960, 2940, 1760, 1720 cm 1 1H nmr CDCl3 6 0.15 0.00 12H, m, 2 x Si CH3 2 , 0.85 18H, s, 2 x C CH3 3 , 1.8 2.5 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 2.75 3.20 4H, m, 2 x PhCH2 4.00 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.10 4.60 4H, m, 2 x OCH CH2Ph CO and 5 CH2 , 5.00 1H, m, 3 CH , 6.14 1H, dd, J 6Hz and J 8Hz, 1 CH , 6.73 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.33 10H, s, 2 x C6H5 , 7.49 1H, s, 6 CH , 7.53 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 9.36 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH Found C, 57.34 J, 6.52 N, 3.27 C41H57BrN2O9Si2 requiresC, 57.40 H, 6.70 N, 3.27 . A small amount of 3,3 ,5 tris L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 phenyl propionyl E 5 2 bromivinyl 2 deoxyuridine was also isolated as a colourless foam 340mg, 9 vmax KBr 2960. 2940, 1790, 1760, 1710 cm 1H nmr CDCl3 6 0.35 0.00 18H, m, 3 x Si CH3 2 , 0.80 27H, s, 3 x C CH3 3 , 1.8 2.5 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 2.7 3.3 6H, m, 3 x PhCH2 , 4.00 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.2 4.6 4H, m, 2 x OCH CH2Ph COO and 5 CH2 , 4.84 1H, dd, J 6Hz and J 9Hz, OCH CH2Ph CON , 5.00 1H, m, 3 OH 6.10 1H, dd, J 6Hz and J 8Hz, 1 CH , 6.71 1H, d, J 14Hz,CH CHBr , 7.29 15H, s, 3 x C6H5 , 7.42 1H, s, 6 CH , 7.46 1H, d,J 14Hz, CH CHBr Found C, 59.20 H. 7.11 N, 2.54 C56H79BrN2011Si3 requires C, 60.03 H. 7.11 N, 2.50 . E 5 2 Bromivinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 hydroxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 t butyldimethyl silyloxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine 1.20g, 1.4mmol was added tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1M in tetrahydrofuran, 2.9mL and the solution was stirred for 20 minutes at roan temperature.The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with acctone hexane mixtures to give E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis L 2 hydroxy 3 phenylpropionyl 2 deoxyuridine as a colourless foam 0.41g, 46 . max MeOH 249 c 13.8 x 103 and 291 11.3 x 103 nm vmax KBr 3440, 3070, 1715, 1685, 1600 cm 1H CD3 2SO 6 2.35 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 2.7 3.1 4H, m, 2 x PhCH2 , 4.04 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.1 4.4 4H, m, 2 x OCH CH2Ph CO and 5 CH2 5.18 1H, m, 3 CH , 5.74 1H, t, J 6Hz, D2O exchangeable, 2 x PhCH2CHOHy, 6.19 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 CH , 6.99 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.1 7.5 11H, m, 2 x C6H5 and CH CHBr , 7.91 1H, s, 6 CH , 11.74 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH Found C, 55.44 H, 4.26 N, 4.33 C29H29BrN2O9 requiresC, 55.34 H, 4.64 N, 4.45 . Examples 20, 21. and 22E 5 2 Bromovinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 chlorophenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 22 E 5 2 Bromovinyl 5 2 chlorophenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 21 andE 5 2 Bromovinyl 3 2 chlorophenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine 20 To a solution of E 5 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 3.33g, 10mmol in dry pyridine 10mL and dry dioxane 10mL at OOC, 2 chlorophenylacetyl chloride 2.21mL, 14mmol was added and the solution stirred for 1 hour at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was further extracted with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried MgSO4 and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with hexane chloroform mixtures.The first compound to elute was E 5 2 bromxTinyl 3 ,5 bis 2 chlorophenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine which was isolated as a colourless foam 2.03g, 32 max MeOH 222 E 17.6 x 103 , 248 e 14.4 x 103 292 E 11.5 x 103 nm vmax KBr 3440, 3070, 1755, 1710 cm 1 1H nmr CDCl3 1.7 2.6 2H, m, 2 OH2 , 4.0 4.3 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.45 2H, m, 5 CH2 , 5.16 1H, m, 3 CH 5.33 1H, s, PhCH Cl CO , 5.38 1H, s, PhCH Cl CO , 6.08 1H, dd, J 6Hz and J 8Hz, 1 CH , 6.55, 6.62 total 1H, each d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.2 7.5 12H, m, 2 x C6H5, CH CHBr and 6 CH , 9.28 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 NH Found C, 51.10 H, 3.71 N, 4.31 C27H23BrCl2N207 requiresC, 50.87 H, 3.63 N, 4.39 . The second compound to elute was E 5 2 bromovinyl 3 2 chloro phenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine which was isolated as a colourless foam 0.19g, 4 vmax KBr 3420, 3060, 1710, 1470 cm 1H nmr CD3 2SO 6 2.31 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 3.63 2H, m, 5 CH2 , 3.8 4.1 1H, m, 4 CH , 5.12 1H, broad, D20 exchangeable, 5 OH , 5.35 1H, m, 3 CH , 5.99 1H, s, PhCH Cl CO , 6.13 1H, m, 1 CH , 6.84 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.2 7.6 6H, m, C6H5 and CH CHBr , 8.06 1H, s, 6 CH , 11.59 1H, s,D20 exchangeable, 3 NH Found C, 46.92 H, 3.36 N, 5.48 C19H18BrClN2O6 requires C, 46.98 H, 3.74 N, 5.77 . The third compound to elute was E 5 2 bromovinyl 5 2 chloro phenylacetyl 2 deoxyuridine which was isolated as a white crystalline solid 1.47g, 30 m.p. 175 1800C max MeCH 249 c 13.9 x 103 and 292 E 11.4 x 103 nm vmax KBr 3380, 3070, 1760, 1700 cm 1 1H nmr CD3 2SO 6 2.1 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 3.94 1H, m, 4 CH , 4.1 4.4 3H, m, 3 CH and 5.38 1H, d, J 4Hz, D2O exchangeable, 3 OH , 5.93, 5.95 total 1H, each s, PhCH Cl CO , 6.12 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 CH , 6.88, 6.90 total H, each d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.2 7.5 6H, m, C6H5 and CH CHBr , 7.69 1H, s, 6 CH , 11.66 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 NH Found C, 46.98 H, 3.73 N, 5.73 C19H18BrClN2O6 requires C, 46.98 H, 3.74 N, 5.77 . Examples 23 and 24 5 E 2 BromovinyQ 2 deoxy 3 ,5 di 0 2S hydroxyphenyl acetylluridine 24 and 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 2 deoxy 5 O 2S hydroxyphenylacetyl3uridine 23 To a solution of trimethylsilyl 2S trimethylsilyloxyphenylacetate 3.55g, 12.0mmol in dry dichloromethane 15ml containing dimethylformamide 3 drops at 0 C was added oxalyl chloride 1.22ml, 14mmol and the solution stirred for 1h at room temperature. The solvent was removed and to the residue at 0 C was added a solution of 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 2.83g, 8.5mmol in dry tetrahydrofuran 9ml and dry pyridine 9ml and the solution stirred for 1h at room temperature.The solution was partitioned between ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was further washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures.The first major product to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxy 3 ,5 0 2S hydroxyphenyl acetyl uridine which was obtained as a colourless foam 810mg, 16 smax KBr 3430, 3070, 1740 and 1710 cm dH CD3 2SO 2.20 2H, m, 2 H , 4.00 1H, m, 4 H , 4.21 2H, m, 5 H , 5.0 5.2 3H, m, 2 x PhCHOH and 3 H , 6.0 6.2 3H, m 2H D20 exchangeable, 2 x OH D20 exchange leaves 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 H , 6.87 1H, d, J 14Hz,CH CHBr , 7.2 7.5 11H, m, 2 x C6H5 and CH CHBr , 7.76 1H, s, 6 H and 11.69 1H, s, D20 exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 52.44 H, 4.16 N, 4.86 . C27H25BrN209 requires C, 53.92 H, 4.19 N, 4.66 . The second major product to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxy 5 0 2S hydroxyphenylacetyl uridine which was obtained as a white crystalline solid 775mg, 20 , m.p. 146 1500C smax KBr 3410, 1695, and 1470 cm1 b CD3 2SO 2.05 2H, m, 2 H , 3.97 1H, m, 4 H , 4.14 1H, m, 3 H , 4.26 2H, m, 5 H , 5.17 1H, d, J 6Hz, collapses to s on D20 exchange, PhCHOH , 5.37 d, J 4 , D2O exchangeable, 3 OH , 6.0 6.25 2H, m, 1H D2O exchangeable, PhCHOH D2O eachange eaves H, t, J 6Hz, 1 H , 6.93 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.3 7.5 6H, m, C6H5 and CH CHBr , 7.77 1H, s, 6 H , and 11.68 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 48.98 H, 3.85 N, 5.75 .C19H19BrN2O7 requires C, 48.84 H, 4.10 N, 6.00 . Example 25 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 2 deoxy 5 O L 2 hydroxy 4 metbyl pentanoyl uridine A solution of 5 E 2 bromovinyl 5 O L 2 t butyl dimethylsilyloxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine 2.25g, 4.0mmol in 80 acetic acid 130ml was stirred at 90 C for 2.5h. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures to afford 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxy 5 0 L 2 hydroxy 4 methylpentanoyl uridine as a white crystalline solid 1.30g, 73 , m.p.159 161 C with decomposition vmax KBr 3410, 2960, and 1690 cm 1 dH CD3 2SO 0.88 6H, d, J 6Hz, CH CH3 , 1.3 2.0 3H, m, CH2CH CH3 2 , 2.21 2H, m, 2 H , 3.9 4.3 5H, m, CH OH CO, 3 H, 4 H and 5 H , 5.4 1H. br, D2O exchangeable, OH , 5.50 1H, d, J 6Hz, D2O exchangeable,OH , 6.23 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 H , 6.98 1H, s, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.38 1H, d, J 14Hz1 CH CHBr , 7.87 1H, s, 6 H , and 11.7 1H, br, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 45.74 H, 5.07 N, 6.39 . C17H23BrN2O7 requires C, 45.65 H, 5.18 N, 6.26 . Example 26 E 2 Bromovinyl 2 deoxy 3 , di O L 2 ydroxy 4 methylpentanoyl uridine A solution of 5 E 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 di O L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine 1.58g, 2.0mmol in 80 acetic acid 130ml was stirred at 90 C for 4 h. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures.Trituration with methanol water afforded 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxy 3 ,5 di O L 2 hydroxy 4 methylpentanoyl uridine as a white crystalline solid 0.65g, 58 , m.p. 87 89 C vmax KBr 3440, 2960 and 1710 cm H CD3 2SO 0.89 12H, d, J 6Hz, 2 x CH CH3 2 , 1.4 2.0 6H, m, 2 x CH2CH CE3 2 , 2.4 2H, m, 2 H , 4.0 4.4 5H, m, 2 x CH OH CO, 4 H and 5 H , 5.29 1H, m, 3 H , 5.42 1H, d, J 6Hz, D2O exchangeable,OH , 5.57 1H, d, J 6Hz, D2O exchangeable, OH , 6.24 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 H , 6.96 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.37 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.93 1H, s, 6 H , and 11.7 1H, br,D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 49.24 H, 5.96 N, 4.94 . C23H33BrN2O9 requires C, 49.21 H, 5.92 N, 4.99 . Examples 27 and 28 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 2 deoxy 3 r5 di O methoxyacetyl uridine 28 and 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 2 deoxy 5 O methoxyacetyl uridine 27 To a solution of 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 3.00g, 9.0mmol in dry pyridine 9ml and dry dioxan 9ml at OOC was added methoxyacetyl chloride 1.15ml, 12.6mmol and the solution was stirred for 0.5h at room temperature.The solution was partitioned between ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was further washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures.The first compound to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxy 3 ,5 di O methoxyacetyl uridine which was obtained as a white crystalline solid 1.11g, 26 , m.p 133 135 C vmax KBr 3420, 3060, 1750, 1735, 1710, and 1685 cm dH CD3 2SO 2.3 2.5 3H, m, 2 H and CD3 2SO , 3.30 6H, s, 2 x CH3 , 4.06 4H, s, 2 x OCH2CO , 4.30 3H, m, 4 H and 5 H , 5.27 1H, m, 3 H , 6.12 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 H , 6.85 1H, d,J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.27 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.79 1H, s, 6 H , and 11.67 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 42.80 H, 4.37 N, 6.04 . C17H21BrN2O9 requires C, 42.78 H, 4.44 N, 5.87 . The second compound to elute was 5 E 2 brdmovinyl 2 deoxy 5 O methoxyacetyl uridine which was obtained as a white crystalline solid 1.64g, 45 , m.p. 140 1420C vmax KBr 3420, 3230, 1750, 1715, 1680, 1670, and 1655 1 cm H CD3 2SO 2.29 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 H , 3.32 3H, s, CH3 , 3.96 1H, m, 4 H , 4.09 2H, s, OCH2CO , 4.27 3H, m, 3 H and 5 H , 5.4 1H, br, D2O exchangeable, 3 OH , 6.17 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 H , 6.92 1H, d, J 13Hz,CH CHBr , 7.33 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.78 1H, s, 6 H , and 11.6 1H, br, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 41.54 H, 4.17 N, 7.15 . C14H17BrN207 requiresC, 41.50 H, 4.23 N, 6.91 t . Examples 29 and 5 E 2 Bromovinyl deoxy 3 ,5 di O 2R hydroxyphenyl acetyl uridine 30 and 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 2 deoxy 5 O 2R hydroxyphenylacetyl uridine 29 To a solution of trimethylsilyl 2R trimethylsilyloxyphenylacetate 3.55g, 12.0mmol in dry dichloromethane 15ml containing dimethylformamide 3 drops at 0 C was added oxalyl chloride 1.22ml, 14mmol and the solution stirred for 0.7h at room temperature. The solvent was removed and the residue taken up in dry tetrhydrofuran 5ml .To this solution at 0 C was added a solution of 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 2.67g, 6.Ommol in dry tetrahydrofuran 9ml and dry pyridine 9ml and the solution stirred for 0.6h at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was further washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures.The first major product to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxy 3 ,5 di O 2R hydroxyphenylacetyl uridine which was obtained as a colourless foam 452mg, 10 vmax KBr 3430, 3070, 1740, and 1710 cm 1 H CD3 2SO 2.20 2H, m, 2 H , 4.23 3H, m, 4 H and 5 H , 4.7 br, D2O exchangeable, 2 x OH , 5.20 3H, m, 2 x PhCHOH and 3 H , 6.04 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 H , 6.83 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.2 7.5 11H, m, 2 x C6H5 and CH CHBr , 7.71 1H, s, 6 H , and 11.66 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 53.59 H, 4.19 N, 4.70 . C27H25BrN2O9 requires C, 53.92 H, 4.19 N, 4.66 . The second major product to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxy 5 0 2R hydroxyphenylacetyl uridine which was obtained as a colourless solid 1.03g, 28 vmax KBr 3420, 2040, and 1700 cm 1 dH CD3 2SO 2.07 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 H , 3.89 1H, m, 4 H , 4.22 3H, m, 3 H and 5 H , 4.9 2H, br, D2O exchangeable, PhCHOH and 3 OH , 5.18 1H, s, PhCHOH , 6.21 1H, t, J 6Hz,1 H , 6.88 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.2 7.4 6H, ra, C6H5 and CH CHBr , 7.72 1H, s, 6 H and 11.63 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 48.65 H, 4.07 N, 6.17C19H19BrN207 requires C, 48.84 H, 4.10 N, 6.00 . Examples 31 and 32 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 3 ,5 di O 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine and 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 5 O L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyurudine To a solution of t butyldimethylsilyl L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 methylpentanoate 6.1 2g, 17mmol in dry dichloromethane 20ml containing dimethylformamide 4 drop at OOC was added oxalyl chloride 1.71ml, 19.6mmol . The solution was stirred for 3h at room temperature and the solvent was then removed.To the residue at OOC was added a solution of 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 4.00, 12mmol in dry pyridine 12ml and dry tetrahydrofuran 12ml and the solution stirred for 0.5h at room temperaturcThe solution was partitioned between chloroform and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was further washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting initially with chloroform hexane 2 1 and then with chloroform and chloroform methanol mixtures.The first compound to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 di O L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine which was obtained as a white crystalline solid 1.90g, 20 , m.p.89 93 C vmas KBr 2960, 2930, 2860, 1760 and 1720 cm 1 dH CDCl3 0.07 12H, s, 2 x Si CH3 2 , 0.90 30H, m, 2 x C CH3 3 and 2 x CH CH3 2 , 1.4 1.9 6H, m, 2 x CH2CH CH3 2 , 2.0 2.7 2H, m, 2 H , 4.2 4.5 5H, m, 2 xCH OSi CO, 4 H and 5 H , 5.17 1H, m, 3 H , 6.29 1H, dd, J 6Hz and 8Hz, 1 H , 6.71 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.49 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.53 1H, s, 6 H , and 9.36 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 53.35 H, 8.02 N, 3.81 .C35H61BrN2OgSi2 requires C, 53.22 H, 7.78 N, 3.55 The second compound to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 5 O L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 methylpentanoyl 2 deoxyuridine which was obtained as a white crystalline solid 3.68g, 55 , m.p. 151 1550C vmax KBr 3410, 2960, 2930, 2860, 1700 cm 1 dH CD3 2SO 0.05 6H, s, Si CH3 2 , 0.90 15H, m, C CH3 3 and CH CH3 2 , 1.4 1.9 3H, m, CH2CH CH3 2 , 2.21 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 H , 3.98 1H, m, 4 H , 4.26 4H, m, CH OSi CO, 3 H and 5 H , 5.27 1H, br, D2O exchangeable, 3 OH , 6.29 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 H , 6.90 1H, d, J 14Hz, CH CHBr , 7.33 1H, d, J 14Hz,CH CHBr , 7.79 1H, s, 6 H , and 11.69 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 49.49 H, 6.56 N, 5.37 .C23H37BrN207Si requires C, 49.19 H, 6.64 N, 4.99 . Examples 33 and 34 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 3 ,5 di O 2 bromobutyryl 2 deoxyuridine 34 and 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 5 O 2 bromobutyryl 2 deoxyuridine 33 To a solution of 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 3.33g, 10.0mmol in dry pyridine 10ml and dry dioxan 10ml at 0 C was added 2 bromobutyryl bromide 2.01ml, 17.0mmol and the solution was stirred for 0.5h at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was further washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed.The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures The first compound to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 3 ,5 di O 2 bromobutyryl 2 deoxyuridine which was isolated as a white crystalline solid 2.00g, 32 , m.p. 130 133 C vmax KBr 3440, 2980, 1740, and 1710 cm 1 dH CDCl3 1.04, 1.07 total 6H, each t, J 7Hz, 2 x CH3 , 1.9 2.7 6H, m,2 x CH2CH3 and 2 H , 4.1 4.3 3H, m, 2 x CH2CHBrCO and 4 H , 4.51 2H, m, 5 H , 5.30 1H, m, 3 H , 6.26 1H, m, 1 H , 6.72, 6.74 total 1H, each d, J 14Hz,CH CHBr , 7.3 7.5 2H, m, CH CHBr and 6 H , and 9.20 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 35.93 H, 3.52 N, 4.33 . C19H23Br3N2O7 requires C, 36.16 H, 3.67 N, 4.44 The second compound to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 5 0 2 bromobutyryl 2 deoxyuridine which was isolated as a white crystalline solid 1.33g, 28 , m.p. 160.5 163 C vmax KBr 3440, 1740, and 1700 cm 1 H CD3 2SO 0.96 3H, t, J 7Hz, CH3 , 1.7 2.1 2H, m, CH2CH3 , 2.20 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 H , 2.96 1H, m, 4 H , 4.31 3H, m, 3 H and 5 H , 4.52 1H, t, J 7Hz, CH2CHBrCO , 5.4 1H, br, D2O exchangeable, 3 OH , 6.15 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 H , 6.90 1H, d, J 13Hz, CH CHBr , 7.30 1H, d, J 13Hz,CH CHBr , 7.75 1H, s, 6 H , and 11.64 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 37.10 H, 3.65 N, 5.65 .C15H18Br2N206 requires C, 37.37 H, 3.76 N, 5.81 . Examples 35 and 36 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 2 deoxy 3 ,5 di O phenoxyacetyl uridine 36 and 5 E 2 Bromovinyl 2 deoxy 5 O phenoxy acetyl uridine 35 To a solution of 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxyuridine 3.33g, 10.0mmol in dry dioxan 10ml and dry pyridine 10ml at 0 C was added phenoxyacetyl chloride 2.31ml , 16.7mmol and the solution was stirred for 0.5h at room temperature. The solution was partitioned between ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid and the organic layer was further washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel eluting with chloroform methanol mixtures.The first compound to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxy 3 ,5 di O phenoxyacetylOuridine which was isolated as a colourless foam 2.55g, 42 Amax MeOH 217 18,900 , 249 c 14,100 , and 291 11,400 nm vmax KBr 1760, 1710, 1685, and 1600 cm 1 dH CD3 2SO 2.37 2H, m, 2 H , 4.2 4.4 3H, m, 4 H and 5 H , 4.77 2H, s,OCH2CO , 4.80 2H, s, OCH2CO , 5.30 1H, m, 3 H , 6.14 1H, t, J 7Hz, 1 H , 6.8 7.4 12H, m, 2 x C H andCH CHBr , 7.80 1H, s, 6 H , and 11.64 1H, s, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 53.98 H, 4.01 N, 4.64 . C27H25BrN2O9 requires C, 53.92 H, 4.19 N, 4.66 . The second compound to elute was 5 E 2 bromovinyl 2 deoxy 5 O phenoxyacetyl uridine which was isolated as a white crystalline solid 1.88g, 40 , m.p. 163 165 C max MeOH 250 14,500 and 292 11,800 nm vmax KBr 3410, 1755, 1725, 1695, and 1660 cm 1 H CD3 2SO 2.13 2H, t, J 6Hz, 2 H , 3.95 1H, m, 4 H , 4.29 3H, m, 3 H and 5 H , 4.79 2H, s, OCH2CO , 5.4 1H, br, D2O exchangeable, 3 OH , 6.15 1H, t, J 6Hz, 1 H , 6.8 7.4 7H, m, C H and CH CHBr , 7.76 1H, s, 6 H , and 11.6 1H, br, D2O exchangeable, 3 H Found C, 48.73 H, 3.98 N, 5.77 . C19H 19BrN2O7 requires C, 48.84 H, 4.10 N, 6.00 . Description 1 t Butyldimethylsilyl L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 3phenylpropionate To a solution of L 3 phenyllactic acid 2.50g, 16mmol in dry dimethylformamide 8ml was added t butyldimethylsilyl chloride 4.75g, 31.5mmol followed by imidazole 4.08g, 60mmol and the solution was stirred for 6 hours at 60 C. The mixture was poured into water and extracted with hexane, and the organic layer further washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed to afford t butyldimethylsilyl L 2 butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 phenylpropionate as a clear colourless liquid 5.56g, 94 . max film 2930, 2860, 1740, 1720 1 1H nmr CDCl3 0.21 3H, s, CHOSiCH3 , . 8 3H,s,CHOSiCH3 , 0.26 6H,s,COOSi CH3 2 , 0.82 9H, s, CHOSiC CH3 3 , 0.95 9H, s, COOSiC CH3 3 , 2.6 3,3 2H,m,PhCH2 , 4.30 lH,dd,J 5Hz and J 8Hz, CH2CHO , 7.24 5H,s,C6H5 . M.S. fr t Bu3 observed 337.1677 M t Bu theoretical 337.1655 . Description 2 t Butyldimethylsilyl L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 methylpentanoate To a solution of L 2 hydroxy 4 methylpentanoic acid 2.64g, 20mmol in dry dimethylformamide 10ml was added t butyldimethylsilyl chloride 6.33g, 42mmol followed by imidazole 5.72g, 84mmol and the solution was stirred at 60 C for 6h.The solution was partitioned between water and hexane and the organic layer was further washed with aqueous sodium bicarbonate, dried magnesium sulphate and the solvent removed to afford t butyldimethylsilyl L 2 t butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 methylpentanoate as a clear colourless liquid 6.69g, 93 vmax film 2960, 2930, 2900, 2860, 1740 and 1720 cm 1 dH CDCl3 0.01 3H, s, CHOSiCH3 , 0.06 3H, s, CHOSiCH3 , 0.24 6H, s, COOSi CH3 2 , 0.85 0.95 24H, m, 2 x C CH3 3 and CH CH3 2 , 1.4 2.0 3H, m, CH2CH CH3 2 , and 4.17 1H, dd, J 5Hz, CH2CH OSi CO Found M t butyl 303.1830 C14H31O3Si2 requires 303.1809 . T escription 3Trimethylsilyl 2S trimethylsilylphenylacetate To a solution of S mandelic acid 2.28g, 15mmol in dry tetrahydrofuran 15ml was added N,O bistrimethylsilylacetamide 7.0ml, 28mmol and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 0.5h. The solvent was removed and the residue was placed under high vacuum at 500C to remove byproducts. Trimethylsilyl 25 trimethyl silyloxyphenylacetate was obtained as a clear pale yellow liquid 4.30g, 97 vmax film 2960, 1740, and 1720 cm 1 H CDCl3 0.21 9H, s, CHOSi CH3 3 , 0.29 9H, s,COOSi CH3 3 , 5.22 1H, s, PhCH , and 7.3 7.6 5H, m,C6H5 Found M CH3 281.1008 C13H21O3Si2 requires 281.1029 . Description 4Trimethylsilyl 2R trimethylsilyloxyphenylacetate Trimethylsilyl 2R trimethylsilyloxyphenylacetate was prepared in an identical manner to the 2S compound but substituting R mendelic acid vmax film 2960, 1740, and 1720 cm 1 H CDCl3 0.16 9H, s, CHOSi CH3 3 , 0.23 9H, s, COOSi CH3 3 , 5.16 1H, s, PhCH , and 7.3 7.6 5H, m, C6H5 Found M CH3 281.1001 C13H2103Si2 requires 281.1029 . Antiviral ActivityIn VitroMethod Vero African Green Monkey Kidney cells were grown to confluence in 24 well multidishes, each well being 1.6 cm in diameter. The cells were infected withHerpes Simplex type 1 virus HFEM strain ad overlaid with 0.5 mL of 0.9 agarose w v in maintenance medium in concentrations ranging from 100 to 0.03 iIg ml in half log dilution steps, were added in 0.5 mL volume.The virus infected cultures were then incubated at 370C for 4 days before fixing in 4 formaldehyde solution and staining with carbolfuchsin. The dishes were then examined to find what concentration of test compound caused a 50 reduction in the number of virus plaques formed PD50 value and the minimum concentration of test compond which caused cytotoxicity MTD . ResultsEMI44.1 tb Example SEP PDD50 SEP MTD tb SEP No. SEP g mL tb SEP g ml SEP M tb SEP 1 SEP 0.14 SEP 0.29 SEP 100 tb SEP 2 SEP 0.12 SEP 0.29 SEP 100 tb SEP 4 SEP 0.14 SEP 0.27 SEP 100 tb SEP 5 SEP 0.14 SEP 0.33 SEP 100 tb SEP 6 SEP 2.03 SEP 2.06 SEP 100 tb SEP 7 SEP 0.24 SEP 0.37 SEP 100 tb SEP 8 SEP 0.22 SEP 0.33 SEP 100 tb SEP 9 SEP 1.47 SEP 1.75 SEP 100 tb SEP 10 SEP 0.18 SEP 0.40 SEP SEP 100 tb SEP 14 SEP 0.32 SEP 0.48 SEP SEP 100 tb SEP 16 SEP 0.63 SEP 0.68 SEP SEP 100 tb SEP 18 SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP tb SEP 19 SEP 0.43 SEP 0.68 SEP 100 tb SEP 20 SEP 0.18 SEP 0.37 SEP 100 tb SEP 21 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.14 SEP 100 tb SEP 22 SEP 0.34 SEP 0.53 SEP 100 SEP tb SEP 23 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.34 SEP 100 tb SEP 24 SEP 0.45 SEP 0.75 SEP 100 tb SEP 25 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.34 SEP SEP 100 tb SEP 26 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.29 SEP 100 tb SEP 27 SEP 0.12 SEP 0.30 SEP 100 tb SEP 28 SEP 0.17 SEP 0.36 SEP 100 tb SEP 29 SEP 0.22 SEP 0.47 SEP 100 tb SEP 30 SEP 0.66 SEP 1.10 SEP 100 tb SEP 31 SEP 0.53 SEP 0.94 SEP 100 tb SEP 32 SEP 4.9 SEP 6.2 SEP 100 tb SEP 33 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.37 SEP 100 tb SEP 34 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.32 SEP 100 tb SEP 35 SEP 0.18 SEP 0.38 SEP 100 tb SEP 36 SEP 0.57 SEP 0.95 SEP 100 tb