# Magnetizable recording disk and disk file employing servo sector head positioning.

## Abstract
A magnetizable recording disk is divided into data 11 and servo 10 sectors. The servo sectors 12 include position reference information 25 30 comprising a circum ferentially extending and radially repeated magnetization pattern. Each such pattern comprises at least three subsets 25, 26, 27 of elements 43, 49 from each of which a different phase of radial position error signal, indicating displacement from a data track centre 44, 45, 46 line, can be derived. The subsets 25, 26, 27 are radially offset from each other by less than the pitch of the data tracks and their individual elements each have a radial width greater than the pitch of a data track. By making the width of the individual element of the servo pattern greater than that of the data tracks and, necessarily, greater than the physical width of the electromagnetic transducing head for reading and writing information on the disk, the contribution of neighbouring elements to the signal sensed by the head via its fringing field is reduced. This results in a more linear position error signal A, B, C in all regions where the head straddles the boundary between elements. A disk file comprising such a disk 70 comprises, in addition to the electromagnetic transducing head 39, 40 , a head positioning actuator 72 , position error signal generating means 80 for generating the multiple phase position error signals A, B, C and combining them into a composite signal 62 and feedback means for feeding back the composite position error signal to control the actuator to correct for displacement of the head 39, 40 from a selected data track centre line.