# Vaccines against diseases causing bacteria with capsular polysaccharides and process of preparing them.

## Abstract
Vaccines against pathogenic bacteria with capsular polysaccharides comprising oligosaccharides which are anchored in a liposome via amines, as well as a process for preparing such vaccines wherein capsular polysaccharides are hydrolyzed to oligosaccharides with 6 10 monosacchar ide units, thereafter selected oligosaccharides with antigenic properties are reductively aminated and the obtained glycoli pids are anchored in a liposome.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Vaccines against pathogenic bacteria with capsular polysaccharides, characterized in that said vaccines contain suitable oligosaccharides which are anchored in a liposome via alkyl amines, with 14 22 carbon atoms, or other amines, such as those from the series of the phosphatidyl ethanol amines 2. Vaccine according to claim 1, characterized in that in the liposome oligosaccharides originating from polysaccharides of possibly different pathogenic bacteria are anchored. 3. Vaccine according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the oligosaccharides are originating from polysaccharides ofStreptococcus pneumoniae. 4. Vaccine according to claims 1 3, characterized in that the oligosaccharides per molecule count 2 12, preferably 6 10 monosaccharide units. 5. Vaccine according to claims 1 14, characterized in that the alkylamine is a primary lipofilic alkylamine with 16 20 carbon atoms. 6. Vaccine according to claims 1 5, characterized in that the liposome is composed of double layer of a phospholipid and a sterol. 7. Vaccine according to claims 1 6, characterized in that it also comprises an adjuvant. 8. Vaccine according to claim 7, characterized in that the adjuvant is dimethyl dioctadecyl ammonium bromide. 9. A process for preparing a vaccine against infections by bacteria with capsular polysaccharides, characterized in that said capsular polysaccharides are hydrolyzed to oligosaccharides with 6 10 monosaccharide units, the obtained oligosaccharides which contain the antigenic determinant are selected and reductively aminated with an alkylamine, with 14 22 carbon atoms, or other amines such as those from the series of the phosphatidyl ethanol amines, and the obtained glycolipids are anchored in a liposome. 10. A process according to claim 9, characterized in that the capsular polysaccharides of Streptococcus pneumoniae are decomposed by hydrolysis, for example enzymatic or acidic hydrolysis, to oligosaccharides with 6 8 monosaccharide units, said oligosaccharides are reductively aminated with a primary lipofilic alkyl amine with 16 20 carbon atoms and NaCNBH3 and the obtained glycolipids are anchored in a liposome using lecithine and a sterol.

## Description
VACCINES AGAINST PATHOGENIC BACTERIA WITH CAPSULAR POLYSACCHARIDES AND PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION THEREOFThe invention relates to pathogenic bacteria with capsular polysaccharides and to a process for preparing said kind of vaccines.The preparation of pathogenic vaccines against bacteria envelopped by capsular polysaccharides, such as the various types of Streptococcus pneumoniae and Slebsiella pneumonia, is a problem.Said capcular polysaccharides protect the bacteria namely highly effectively against fagocytosis by cells of the patients. For that reason it is tried to find vaccines specifically stimulating the production of antibodies against polysaccharides in human beings and animals. After such antibodies have reacted with the protective capsules, further destruction of the infective bacteria follows rapidly and securely. Tests with vaccines on the basis of the intact capsular polysaccharides of said kind of bacteria have proved that this kind of vaccines has limited effect. Since these polysaccharides consist of repeating units, it has been tested whether decomposition products in the form of oligosaccharides from said polysaccharides might be more effective.As a matter of fact it was found that oligosaccharide fractions with 2 12, preferably 6 10 monosaccharide units develop a strong antigenic activity if presented on a protein carrier.When administering said kind of oligosaccharides to human beings and animals, it appeared, however, during further tests that they are often decomposed in the body before they could develop their antigenic activities or stimulate the production of antibodies against the intact polysaccharides. So according to the invention one looked for a possibility to administer the oligosaccharides in such a form that they are adequately protected against decomposition in the body of a patient, being either a human being or an animal, to be able to stimulate the production of antibodies sufficiently.According to the invention such a protection is achieved effectively when the oligosaccharides are anchored in a liposome via a primary lipophilic alkylamine with 14 22 carbon atoms, or other amines with a strong hydrophobic part, such as those from the series of the phosphatidyl ethanol amines. The present vaccines comprise oligosaccharides which are anchored in liposomesvia alkylamines.By anchoring oligosaccharides, originating from various bacteria, in the liposome, a multivalent vaccine against various bacteria can be obtained. However, it is also possible to use oligosaccharides prepared along a chemical route.The parts of the present vaccines are described herebelow.To prepare the most active fractions of oligosaccharides, it is to be started from the intact polysaccharides. The latter can be obtained by cultivating the relevant bacterium in a suitable fermentation medium, neutralising the culture obtained with alkaline solution, precipitating the polysaccharides with calcium chloride or another suitable salt, washing with water and dissolving again several times in solutions of acids, bases or salts followed every time by precipitating for instance with ethanol or acetone. In this way finally a sufficiently pure polysaccharide fraction is obtained.Therefrom the desired oligosaccharides can be obtained by partial hydrolysis. The hydrolysis can be effected enzymatically or chemically, in particular by acidic hydrolysis. By heating the resulting polysaccharide fraction in an acid medium for some time, among other things the desired oligosaccharide fraction is formed. 0Usually heating in a lN acid solution at 100 C for about 30 minutes appeared to be very suitable. Said acidic hydrolysis provides a number of oligosaccharides with 2 to many saccharide units. These oligosaccharides can be separated by chromatography, for instance over Sephadex, so that oligosaccharides of different chain length are recovered and thus are separated.The most active fractions appeared to be those with 6 to 8 monosaccharide units per molecule. The said fractions can be identified by means of thin layer chromatography, gas liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance.The oligosaccharide fractions thus obtained cannot directly be attached to liposomes,but they have first to be brought into the form of a glycolipid. The best way to do this is by reductively aminating them with an alkylamine and a reduction agent, such asNaCNBH3. This reaction is carried out at room temperature for 7 14 days until the major part of the uncoupled oligosaccharide has disappeared. This is checked by thin layer chromatography.For a reasonable reaction time, preferably a great excess, rather a fivefold excess of amine and reduction agent are applied. As a medium wherein this reaction occurs, any solvent can be applied that dissolves said reactants sufficiently.To obtain the desired glycolipids in a pure form, they are brought into a hydrofobic solvent, e.g. chloroform, after the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness, whereafter an equal volume of water is added, the entire mixture is shaken in order to obtain an emulsion, the emulsion intermediate layer is isolated by centrifugating and the desired glycolipid is recovered from this intermediate layer. The glycolipids may also be recovered by washing some times a solution of the reaction products and the starting products with a hydrofobic solvent in order to remove the free and not converted alkyl amine, followed by freezedrying the water methanol solution and dissolving the residue for instance in chloroform methanol. The not converted oligosaccharides andreduction agents do not dissolve and can be filtered off.The solution contains pure glycolipid.The liposomes are in principle prepared in the way as described inJ.Mol.Biol. 13, 238 1965 and Immunology 37, 503 1979 . They consist of a lipid double layer, usually built up from phospholipids, such as lecithines, and a sterol, usually cholesterol, the polar groups of which limit the double layer. Between the various double layers there are compartments. The above mentioned glycolipids are anchored in the lipid double layer of the liposomes.Therefore suitable amounts of phospholipid lecithine , sterol and glycolipid are dissolved, subsequently the solution is evaporated to dryness, the residue is treated in a suitable, preferably physiological salt solution and ultrasonically vibrated for a short period of time. In this way liquid suspensions are obtained which, when injected into mammals, provide a good and lasting immunity against the bacteria of which the starting polysaccharides originate When for example mice are injected with a liposome suspension as described above having a degree of charge of about 5 mol. of glycolipid in an amount of 1 nmol. glycolipid and 7 days later with a lethal dose of the bacterium, from which the carbohydrate part of the glycolipid originates, it appeared that all the mice were protected.However, if the glycolipid anchored in the liposome is replaced by a corresponding amount of the starting polysaccharide, a corresponding amount of oligosaccharide prepared therefrom or uncharged liposome was immunized an injection of a lethal dosis of the said organism 7 days later appeared to kill all the test animals. Furthermore the immunity obtained appeared to be specific.With immunisation with oligosaccharide liposomes exclusively originating from Str. pneumoniaertype III, there was not obtained any immunity for example against type IX. After the said immunisation against type III an injection of a lethal dose of the latter bacterium was even as fatal as before.For the preparation of a definitive vaccine an adjuvant can be added as usual, for example in he form of dimethyl dioctadecylammonium bromide that appears to be satisfactory in the present vaccines.It was very surprising that polysaccharides treated in this way hydrolyzed, reductively aminated and anchored to liposome did not only provide a clear immunity, but even produced a considerably improved and longer continuing immunity. The following examples elucidate the invention further without limiting the invention.Example IPreparation of an active oligosaccharide fractionAfter isolation Streptococcus pneumoniae type III was cultivated for 4 days on a brain heart infusion broth Difco comprising 2 g l glucose and 5 g l NaRC03. Thereafter the cells were recovered, neutralized with 2N sodium hydroxide and 5 g l calcium chloride were added to the cell suspension. A precipitate of impure capsular polysaccharide was formed that was washed twice with about 20 times the amount of distilled water.Said precipitate was filtered off with Whatman 50 filter paper. Thereafter said precipitate was dissolved in water for purification, 3 acidified with 8 cm per liter 4N BCl and precipitated with 2 parts by volume of 968 s ethanol and washed with 75 s ethanol.The residue was dissolved in just sufficient distilled water and after the pH was adjusted to 10 with little sodium hydroxide, precipitated anew with ethanol of 96 . After washing with 75 s ethanol the residue was again dissolved in just sufficient distilled water, and after addition of 0.4 g l sodium acetate again precipitated with 96E s ethanol. Finally, the rests of protein were removed by dissolving the latter precipitate in distilled water, shaking the solution with 1 4 volume of a mixture of chloroform butanol glacial acetic acid 20 4 1 by vol. and separating off the water phase. After precipitating again with ethanol and taking up in water, the product was freezedried. In this way the pure capsular polysaccharides were isolated. 3 300 mg of said capsular polysaccharides were dissolved in 15 cm 3 of distilled water, 15 cm of 2 N B25 4 was added thereto and 0 the whole was heated at 100 C for 30 minutes. Subsequently it was neutralized with barium hydroXide and the resulting BaS04precipitate was centrifugated. 3The supernatant was freezedried and dissolved in 10 cm of water. The formed oligosaccharides were fractionated over a column ofSephadex G 25 superfine of Pharmacia 130 x 2.2 cm , using distilled water. The eluate fractions were tested on oligosaccharide by detection with a Uvicord S at 206 mm and, using dextran blue and X2Cr2O7 as column markers.The oligosaccharide containing fractions were further purified onBio Gel P 4. On thin layer chromatography plates with eluant n butanol pyridine water 6 5 5 by vol. and with gas chromatography the chain length was determined according to Tsai Anal. Biochem. 36, 114 1979 . Subsequently these fractions were tested on their capacities to inhibit an antigen antibody reaction of the original polysaccharides. The oligosaccharide fraction inhibiting said reaction strongest, is competing the best with the original polysaccharides, thus has the highest affinity against the antibodies and thus contains the antigenic determinant. This appeared to be the oligosaccharide fraction having 6 monosaccharide units.The oligosaccharide fractions obtained after the Bio GelP 4 fractionation, having an oligosaccharide with 6 monosaccharide units as main component were combined thereafter and used for the following tests.Example II 30 mg of the oligomer fraction which was obtained according to 3 example I, was dissolved in 2.0 cm of a mixture of THF and water 5 2 and under stirring 36 mg of stearyl amine and 5 mg of NaCNBH3 were added thereto and the pH was adjusted to 8.Subsequently the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 days. Thereafter the reaction mixture was subjected to thin layer chromatography with eluant chloroform methanol water 13 5 1 by vol. , and it appeared that not converted oligosaccharide material was no longer present. The resulting glycolipids were recovered by evaporating the reaction mixture to dryness under reduced pressure, dissolving the residue in chloroform, adding an equal volume of water, shaking and isolating the resulting emulsion intermediate layer by centrifugating.Subsequently said layer was evaporated to dryness.Example III 43.8 mg 30 nmol. of the glycolipid obtained according to example II was dissolved in chloroform methanol 3 1 by vol. . 3In a round bottom flask of 50 cm said solution was combined with a solution of 374.5 pg 510 nmol. of dipaimitoyl L a phosphatidyl choline in chloroform and a solution of 23.2 pg 60 nmol. of cholesterol in chloroform. After carefully evaporating the chloroform at 370C a thin film was formed on the wall of the round 3 bottom flask. 15 Cm of a physiological salt solution buffered with phosphate was added, thereafter it was carefully shaken at 610C for 10 minutes. Subsequently the whole was put aside at room temperature for 1 hour, vibrated ultrasonically with an amplitude of 7 pm for 30 seconds, each time with an intermediate period of 15 seconds.In this way a liposome with anchored therein a glycolipid produced according to example II was obtained. The liposome preparation was put aside at room temperature for 1 hour before immunization of animals. Example IV 10 weeks old female mice were injected with increasing amounts of the material produced according to example III, and viz. to an amount corresponding with 30 nmol. of glycolipid anchored in liposome . After 7 days each group was injected i.p. with 25 times a lethal dosis of Str. pneumoniae type TIT. From a dose corresponding with 0.5 nmol. of glycolipid onward the protection appeared to be effective. All the control animals died, all the animals immunized with more than 0.5 nmol. anchored glycolipid stayed alive. Said protection is specific for Str. pneumoniae type III, for a later injection of Str. pneumoniae type IX appeared to be lethal for these test animals.