# Method and kit for removing and assaying complement system fragments.

## Abstract
A method for assaying or removing complement frag ment C₃a, C₄a or C₅a or a des Arg derivative thereof uses buffered acrinol, incubation, recovery from the supernatant and labelled complement antibody incubation. A suitable kit comprises three containers, respectively containing buffered acrinol, labelled complement fraction and antibody.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for assaying complement fragment C3a, C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof in a biological sample which comprises comboning equal volumes of the biological sample and a solution of 0.8 to 1.6 acrinol, incubating the mixture for about one minute to 2 hour at about 25 C, recovering the supernatant from the resultant precipitate, incubating the supernatant with a known amount of a labeled complement fragment selected from C3a, C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof and a known amount of antibody which recognizes said complement fragment or des Arg derivative thereof, separating the free labeled complement fragment from the bound labeled complement fragment, measuring the amount of labeled complement fragment in either the free or antibody bound complement component, and determining the concentration of complement fragment or the des Arg derivative thereof in the biological sample by comparison to a standard curve. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the solution of acrinol is 2 ethoxy6,9 diaminoacridine lactate monohydrate buffered with 0.05M phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, and the label is 1251. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the free labeled complement fragment or des Arg derivative thereof is separated from the bound labeled complement fragment by the addition of a second antibody. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein complement fragment being assayed isC3a or the des Arg derivative thereof. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the complement fragment being assayed is C4a or the des Arg derivative thereof. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the complement fragment being assayed is C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof. 7. A method for removing complement components C3, C4 and C5 from samples of biological fluids and recovering from said fluids complement fragments C3a, C4a and C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof which comprises combining equal volumes of the biological fluid sample and a buffered solution of 0.8 to 1.6 acrlnol, incubating the mixture for about one minute to 2 hours at about 25 C and recovering tne supernatant, containing said complement fragments, from the resultant precipitate. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein acrinol is 2 ethoxy 6,9 diamino acridine lactate monohydrate and the buffer is 0.05M phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, and the mixture is incubated for about 20 minutes to one hour. 9. A mercantile kit wherein the component parts are assembled for use in assaying biological fluids for complement fragments C3a, C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof which comprises a a first container having therein a buffered solution of 0.8 to 1.6 acrinol b a second container having therein a labeled reagent selected from labeled complement fragments C3a, C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof and c a third container having therein an antibody reagent selected from antibody which recognizes complement fragment C3a, C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof. 10. The mercantile kit of claim 9 which additionally comprises a a fourth container having therein assay buffer b a fifth container having therein a second antibody c a sixth container having therein complement fragment C3a, C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof standard, 25 ng d a seventh container having therein complement fragment C3a,C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof standard, 10 ng e an eighth container having therein complement fragment C3a,C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof standard, 5.0 ng f a ninth container having therein complement fragment C3a, C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof standard, 2.5 ng and g a tenth container having therein complement fragment C3a, C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof standard, 1.0 ng, and wherein acrinol is 2 ethoxy 6,9 diaminoacridine lactate monohydrate.

## Description
METHOD AND KIT FOR REMOVING AND ASSAYING COMPLEMENT SYSTEM FRAGMENTS The present invention relates to a method for assaying complement fragments C3a, C4a and C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof, and a mercantile kit useful in performing said immunoassay. 7he complement system of humans and other mammals involves more than 20 components which participate in an orderly sequence of reactions resulting in complement activation. Numerous studies indicate that the complement system is a fundamental element of normal host defense mechanisms. As a consequence, complement activation is commonly associated with a variety of pathological states such as certain malignancies, myocardial infarction, systemic lupus erythematosis, and adult respiratory distress syndrome. Because of these correlations clinical laboratory methods that detect complement activation are useful in diagnosing certain disease conditions. Complement activation can occur by either of two primary modes known as the classical11 pathway and the alternative pathway, respectively. These different pathways are generally distinguished according to the process which initiates complement activation. Activation via the classical pathway is usually associated with an immunologic stimulus whereas activation via the alternative pathway is most commonly associated with non immunologic stimuli. Regardless of the initiating stimulus both pathways converge, followed by the conversion of the C3 component of complement into its Ca and Cb fragments.This cleavage of C3 into its subcomponents is considered to be one of the significant events signalling activation of the alternate complement cascade. Following the conversion of Cj, a C5 convertase enzyme complex is formed. This enzyme cleaves the Cs component to yield the fragments C5a and C5b. Complement activation by the classical pathway mechanism is uniquely characterized by the fact that this route leads to the conversion of the Ct component to its fragments Cta and C4b. The physicochemical and physiological properties of the cleavage products C3a, C4a and Csa, termed anaphylatoxins are well known. Each is a potent bioactive polypeptide and plays a key role as a mediator of acute inflammatory processes. Among these three anaphylatoxins C5a alone is uniquely characterized by its ability to interact with white blood cells. Both Ca and Ca are rendered inactive in vivo by con version to their respective des arginine derivatives C3ades Arg or C3aj, C4ades Arg or C4aj by a serum carboxypeptidase.Human C5a, on the other hand, is converted to C5adeS Arg by this serum carboxypeptidase only after all available white blood cell binding sites for C5a have been saturated. Conversion of the human complement components C3 and Cs to yield their respective anaphylatoxin products has been implicated in certain naturally occurring pathologic states including autolitinune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosis, rheumatoid arthritis, malignancy, myocardial infarction, Purtscher s retinopathy, and adult respiratory distress syndrome. in addition, increased circulating levels of Ca and C5a have been detected in certain conditions associated with iatrogenic complement activation such as cardiopulmonary bypass surgery, renal dialysis, and nylon fiber leukaphoresis. Elevated levels of C4a anaphylatoxin are commonly associated with the autoimmune disorders mentioned above.Therefore, the ability to quantitatively measure the circulatfng levels of these anaphylatoxins or their des Arg derivatives is of great utility in diagnosing a variety of important pathological conditions. Additionally, the ability to measure levels of C4a or C4ades Arg enables one to determine the pathway by which complement activation occurs. This facility enables one not only to determine the precise mechanwm of complement activation but also whether a patient s natural immunological defense mechanisms are functional. Until the development of the radloimmunoassay RIA method ofTony E. Hugli and Dennis E. Chenoweth reported in Immunoassays Cl in iczl Laboratory Techniques for the 1980s, 443 460, Alan R. Liss,Inc., New York, NY 1980 , measurement of the anaphylatoxins C3a, C4a and Ca or their des Arg derivatives had only been achieved when the levels of these factors were relatively elevated, for example, when the disease process had reached an advanced stage. The RIA techniques of Hugh and Chenoweth permit quantitative measurement of trace amounts of the anaphylatoxins or their des Arg derivatives and hence provide a sensitive diagnostic tool.However, the means known heretofore for measuring these factors have been frought with a significant problem associated with the requirement that the C3, C4 and C5 plasma precursors of the anaphylatoxins must be removed from the biological fluid to be tested. This stringent requirement is predicated on the observation that the antibodies raised to the anaphylatoxins possess a significant cross reactivity with their respective plasma precursor asC3a, Ca or C5a is a part of the parent molecule Cd, C. and C5, respectively.Because of this unavoidable cross reactivity it is imperative that the precursor which exists in relatively high concentrations in serum and plasma be completely removed to avoid detecting artifactually elevated levels of the anaphylatoxins which are normally present in only trace amounts. Prior known methods af separating the anaphylatoxins from their plasma precursors involves diluting the plasma with sodium chloride and acidifying with hydrochloric acid and subsequently neutralizing the recovered serum sample. See Hugli andChenoweth cited above.The present invention provides a novel and simplified means of quantitatively removing the plasma precursor of the anaphylatoxin from the biological samples yet simultaneously permitting a quantitative recovery of the low molecular weight anaphylatoxins, C3a, Ca and C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof.SUMMARY OF INVENTION The present invention provides a novel method for removing substantially all traces of complement precursors or components Cd, C4 and C5 from samples of biological fluids and recovering from said fluids complement fragments C3a, Ca and C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof without interfering with the immunogenicity of said fragments which comprises combining equal volumes of the biological fluid sample and a buffered solution of G 0,8 to 1.6 acrinol, incubat ing the mixture for from one minute to 2 hours at about 25 C and recovering the supernatant from the resultant precipitate. The present invention also provides a novel and improved method for quantitatively measuring complement fragments Cja, Ca or C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof in a biological sample which comprises combining equal volumes of the biological sample and 0.8 to 1.6 acrinol, incubating the mixture for from one minute to 2 hours at about 250C, recovering the supernatant from the resultant precipitate, and incubating the supernatant with a known amount of a labeled complement fragment selected from Cga, C4a or Ca or the des Arg derivative thereof and a known amount of an antibody which recognizes said labeled complement fragment or des Arg derivative thereof, separating the free labeled complement fragment from the bound labeled complement fragment, measuring the amount of labeled complement fragment In either the free or antibody bound complement component, and determining the concentration of complement fragment in the biological sample by reference to a standard curve. The present invention also provides a novel kit wherein the component parts are assembled for use in assaying samples of biological fluids for complement fragments Cuba, Ca and C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof which comprises a first container having therein a buffered solution of 0.8 to 1.6X solution of acrinol a second container having therein a labeled reagent selected from labeled complement fragments C3a, C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof and a third container having therein an antibody reagent selected from antibody which recognizes complement fragments Ca, C4a or C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF INVENTION As used herein acrinol is taken to mean 2 ethoxy 6,9 diami no acridine or the lactate monohydrade salt thereof. In practicing the present invention the sample of biological fluid can be any bodily fluid such as, for example, serum, plasma, urine or cerebrospinal fluid. When the biological fluid employed is plasma or cerebrospinal fluid EDTA is added thereto. Equal volumes of the biological fluid and 0.8 to 1.6 acrinol are combined for a final concentration of 0.4 to 0.8 acrinol. The preferred final concentration of acrinol is 0.4 . The acrinol protein complex is buffered to a pH of about 7.4. Any buffer which does not contain chloride ions is suitable, for example, carbonate buffers, phosphate buffers, or HEPES N 2 hydroxyethylpiperazineethane sulfon k acid may be employed. Preferably the molarity of the buffer is between 0.05 to O.1M with a pH of from 6.8 to 7.8. The preferred buffer for use in practicing the present invention is 0. 05M phosphate buffer, pH 7.4. Once the biological fluid and acrinol are combined a precipitate forms almost immediately. However, the complex preferably should be permitted to incubate for at least about 20 minutes to effect maximum separation of the complement precursors C3, C4 and C5 from their activated fragments. We have found that precipitation of the complement component is complete within about one minute to 2 hours. The complex may be permitted to incubate longer than 2 hours if necessary, however, no beneficial additional separation of protein is expected to occur beyond 2 hours. Incubation is carried out at room temperature, that is, about 25at. Removal of the precipitate is conveniently accomplished by centrifuging the acrinol protein complex at about 3,000 to 7,000 x g for about 10 to 20 minutes then decanting the supernatant which contains the complement fragments C3a, C4a and C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof. As indicated hereinabove, complement fragments C3a, Ca and C5a are rendered inactive in vivo in serum and plasma by carboxypeptidases by conversion to their respective inactive des Arg derivatives.Such conversion also occurs in vivo in urine. Hence, the supernatant recovered from the novel acrinol precipitation method of the present invention will contain primarily the des Arg derivative of the complement fragments 0d a, 04a and C5a rather than the activated form of said fragments when the biological fluid is plasma, serum or urine. For diagnostic purposes measurement of the inactive des Arg derivative is just as meaningful as the direct measurement of the active form of the complement fragments. The recovered supernatant is used without further treatment or processing in the immunoassay procedure. We have found that the presence of acrinol in the test samples does not Interfere with the antigenicity of the complement fragments or the des Arg derivatives thereof, thus providing a unique and greatly simplified means of assaying for said fragments. The immunoassay procedure is not substantially different from known immunoassays for C3a, Ca and C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof. Equal volumes of the test sample to be assayed, labeled complement fragment C3a, C4a or 05a or the des Arg derivative thereof, and antibody which recognizes said complement fragment are combined and incubated after which the antibody bound and unbound, or free, labeled complement fragment are separated and measured to determine the amount of complement fragment in the test sample by comparlson to standard curves. An assay buffer is generally added to the incubate.We have found a buffer comprising HEPES, protamine sulfate, thimerosol and gelatin to be particularly useful. Purification of the complement fragment Cuba, 04a or C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof for use in raising antibody thereto, and for use in generating standard curves as well as for preparing labeled complement fragment can be achieved by the general method described in J. Biol. Chem. 256, 8685 8692 1981 . We have found that this procedure can be modified and improved by substituting the acrinol precipitation technique described hereinabove for the hydrochloric acid precApitation technique. Antibody to complement fragments C3a, C4a, C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof is raised as generally described by Hugh, et al.,J. Biol. Chem. 250, 1472 1478 1975 , and in J. Biol. Chem. 256, 86858692 1981 . The label utilized in the labeled complement fragment or the des Arg derivative thereof can be any substance capable of detection by physical or chemical means. Radloisotopes such as tritium iodine 131 and iodine 125 are useful with 1251 being preferred. The 125I labeled material can be prepared by various means generally known in the art, such as, the solid phase lactoperoxidase method. A preferred method employs the use of TCDG 1,3,4,6 tetrachloro 3a,6a diphenyl glycouril in phosphate buffered saline. The antibody bound complement fragment can be separated from the free or unbound complement fragment by various means commonly employed in immunoassay procedures. For example, this separation can be achieved by treatment with polyethylene glycol tDesbuquois, B. andAurback, G.D., J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 33, 732 1971 or IgG Sorb or by contacting the incubate with a second antibody. The second antibody, which is prepared by standard procedures, for example, as described in Daughaday, et al., Principle of Competitive ProteinBinding Assay , J.B. Lippincott, Philadelphia 1971 , recognizes the complement fragment antibody complex contained in the incubate. Use of the second antibody technique is particularly preferred. Standard curves are derived essentially by performing the abovedescribed assay procedure using known quantities of complement fragment C3a, Ca or C5a or the des Arg derivative thereof in place of the test sample. The assay procedure described herein is highly sensitive, and we have found it particularly useful to develop standard curves for concentrations of the complement fragments ranging from 1.0 ng to 25 ng. The following examples further illustrate the invention. Example 1 Purification of complement fragments or the des Arg derivative From 2 to 4 liters of serum was activated at 370C by addition of boiled yeast 20 mg ml serum and allowing the mixture to stand for 45 minutes to one hour. Equal volumes of activated serum and 0.8 to 1.6 acrinol, buffered to pH 7.4 with 0.05M phosphate buffer, were combined and let stand for 30 minutes at 250C after which the mixture was centrifuged and the supernatant was decanted. The supernatant was dialyzed against running water overnight at 50 80C then gel filtered on a p 60 column equilibrated with O.IM ammonium formate, pH 5.0. The fractions containing complement fragments C3a, C4a or C5a or the desArg derivatives thereof were pooled and applied to an SP Sephadex column equilibrated with 0.1M ammonium formate, pH 5.0.The column was eluted by a linear gradient of 0.lM to 0.8M ammonium formate, pH 7.0.The fractions of Coda, C4a and C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof were collected and applied individually to separate CM cellulose columns and eluted by a gradient of 0.15M to 0.43M ammonium formate, pH 7.0, at a flow rate of 75 ml hour. Each of the complement componentsC3a, C4a or C5a was pooled with its respective des Arg derivative recovered from the column and lyophilized then redissolved in water and dialyzed against 1X acetic acid. A final lyophilization and resuspension in water of about 10 mg ml provided each fragment ready for use.Example 2 125I Complement C3a or the des Arg derivative thereof To an incubation tube was added 50 9 of complement fragment Ca or the des Arg derivative thereof, 150 pl of phosphate buffered saline, 100 9 of TCDG and 1mCi 10 25I 1251 sodium. The phosphate buffered saline was prepared as a stock solution comprising 81 mg sodium chloride, 39 mg anhydrous sodium biphosphate, 199 mg sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate reagent and 100 ml glass distilled deionized water.The mixture was incubated for 20 minutes at about 25 C then transferred to a chromatography column equilibrated with phosphate buffered saline with gelatin which was prepared as a stock solution comprising 143 g sodium chloride, 200 mg thimerosol NF, 6 g anhydrous sodium biphosphate, 34 g sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate reagent, 17 g gelatin and glass distilled deionized water to a volume of 17.5 liters. Radioactive fractions of 0.5 ml each were collected and diluted to give 20,000 to 60,000 cpm 0.05ml in phosphate buffered saline with gelatin.Example 3 a A mixture of 0.45 ml activated plasma, 0.45 ml of 0.8 acrinol in 0.05M phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, and 0.1 ml distilled water was reacted at about 250C for 20 minutes then centrifuged at 1700 x g for 10 minutes. The supernatant was collected. A mixture of 50 ul of assay buffer prepared as described hereinabove, 50 vl of supernatant obtained above, 50 jil of 1Z5I complement fragment Ca or the des Arg derivative thereof and 50 iil of complement fragment Csa rabbit antisera was incubated for 30 minutes at about 250C after which 50 pl of goat anti rabbit antisera was added and mixed well.The mixture was incubated for an additional 30 minutes at about 250C after which 2 ml of isotonic saline was added. The mixture was centrifuged at 2000 g for 10 minutes and the supernatant decanted. The radioactivity of the pellet was 4555 cpm. b The foregoing procedure was performed only the acid precipi tation technique of Hugh and Chenoweth described in Immunoassays Clinical Laboratory Techniques for the 1980s 443 460 was substituted for the acrinol precipitation step. The radioactivity of the resultant pellet was 4521 4757 cpm demonstrating that the acrinol precipitation technique removes intact complement protein precursor as effect ively as treatment with hydrochloric acid followed by base neutralization providing a greatly improved simplified assay procedure. Also the results of the two experiments indicate that the presence of acrinol does not affect either the first or the second immunological reactions. In generating standard curves for complement fragment Csa or the des Arg derivative thereof using 1.0 ng, 2.5 ng, 5.0 ng, 10 ng, 25 ng and 50 ng quantities of C3a we found that use of the acrinol precipitation step in place of the acid precipitation base neutralization step of Hugh and Chenoweth increased the sensitivity of the fmmuno assay by a factor of 12 as evidenced by the fact that the range of detection became shorter and the slope B Bo Standard Counts BoundStandard was Increased from 2.3 to 4.0.Example 4 The assay as described in 3 a above was performed using acivated plasma samples to which known quantities of complement factor Ca or the des Arg derivative thereof ranging from 2 to 20 ng was added. The results indicate that there was 100 of the known Ca concentrations in each of the spiked normal samples assayed.Example 5 The essential reagents for the performance of the immunoassay of the present invention are assembled into a mercantile unit as a kit.The kit comprises multiple containers, such as, bottles or other suitable containers as f ollows a a first container having therein a buffered solution of 0.8 to 1.6X acrinol b a second container having therein a labeled reagent selected from 1251 labeled complement fragments Csa, Ca or C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof c a third container having therein rabbit antisera to the par ticular complement fragment and which optionally contains the following additional reagents d a container having therein assay buffer, prepared as described hereinabove e a container having therein second antibody which binds the product of the initial complement fragment antibody reaction, preferably goat anti rabbit antisera f a container having therein complement fragment standard, 25 ng g a container having therein complement fragment standard, 10 ng h a container having therein complement fragment standard, 5 ng i a container having therein complement fragment standard, 2.5 ng j a container having therein complement fragment standard, 1.0 ng. In each of f through j the complement fragment Is either Caa,C4a or 05a or the des Arg derivative thereof depending on which complement fragment is being assayed. Although the foregoing examples are limited to the separation and assay of complement fragment Ca or the des Arg derivative thereof the novel separation and assay procedure of the present invention is equally applicable to complement fragments C4a and C5a or the des Arg derivatives thereof.