# Penicillin derivatives and process for preparation of the same.

## Abstract
A penicillin derivative represented by the following formula, and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and ester thereof

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A penicillin derivative represented by the following formula, and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and ester thereof EMI72.1 wherein R1 and R2 are each the same or different and represent hydrogen atom, trialkylsilyl group, carboxyl group, carboxyl group froming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or esterified carboxyl group. 2. A derivative according to claim I in which one of R1 and R2 is hydrogen atom and the other is esterified carboxyl group. 3. A derivative according to claim 1 in whichR1 and R2 are both esterified carboxyl group. 4. A derivative according to claim 1 in which one of R1 and R2 is hydrogen atom and the other is hydrogen atom, carboxyl group or carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. 5. A derivative according to claim 1 in which any one of R1 and R2 is trialkylsilyl group. 6. A derivative according to any one of claims 1, 2 and 3 in which the esterified carboxyl group is lower alkyloxycarbonyl group. 7. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the derivative according to claim 1 which salt is an alkali metal salt, alkaline earth metal salt, organic amine salt, basic amino acid salt or ammonium salt. 8. A pharmaceutically acceptable ester of the derivative according to claim 1 which ester is easily hydrolyzed in vivo and produces a free acid. 9. A process for preparing a penicillin derivative represented by following formula and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and ester thereof EMI73.1 wherein R1 represents hydrogen atom, trialkylsilyl group, carboxyl group, carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or esterified carboxyl group, and R4 represents trialkylsilyl group, carboxyl group, carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or esterifSed carboxyl group, the process comprising reacting a compound of the formula EMI74.1 wherein R3 represents penicillin carboxyl protecting group with an acetylene derivative of the formla R1C CR4 wherein. R1 and R4 are as defined above, and, when required, carrying out any of de esterification, esterification subsequent to de esterification, ester interchange reaction and salt forming reaction. 10. A process for preparing a penicillin derivative represented by the following formula, and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and ester thereof .EMI74.2 wherein R5 represents hydrogen atom, carboxyl group, carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or esterified carboxyl group, the process comprising reacting a compound of the formula EMI75.1 wherein R3 represents penicillin carboxyl protecting group with an acetylene derivative of the formla R1 C CR, wherein R1, and R41 represents hydrogen atom, trialkylsilyl group, carboxyl group, carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or esterified carboxyl group, provided that at least one of R1 and R4 is trialkylsilyl group so that reaction for removing trialkylsilyl proceeds simultaneously, and, when required, carrying out any of de esterification, esterification subsequent to de esterification, ester interchange reaction and salt forming reaction. 11. A process for preparing a penicillin derivative represented by the following formula, and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and ester thereof EMI75.2 wherein R5 represents hydrogen atom, carboxyl group, carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or esterified carboxyl group, the process comprising subjecting to reaction for removing trialkyl silyl. a compound of the formulaEMI76.1 wherein R11 and R represent hydrogen atom, trialkylsilyl group, carboxyl group, carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or esterified carboxyl group, provided that at least one of R1 and R4 is tria lkylsilyl, and when required, carrying out any of de esterification, esterification subsequent to deesterification, ester interchange reaction and saltforming reaction. 12. A process for preparing a penicillin derivative represented by the following formula, and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and ester thereof EMI77.1 the process comprising reacting a compound of the formulaEMI77.2 wherein R3 represents penicillin carboxyl protecting group with a vinyl derivative of the formla CH2 CHR6 wherein R6 represents acyloxy group so that reaction for removing acyloxy proceeds simultaneously, and, when required, carrying out any of de esterification, esterification subsequent to de esterification, ester interchange reaction and salt forming reaction. 13. A ss lactamase inhibitor which contains as the active ingredient at least one of the penicillin derivative as defined in claim 1, and the pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and ester thereof.

## Description
PENICILLIN DERIVATIVES AND PROCESS FOR PREPARATION OF THE SAME This invention relates to penicillin derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and esters thereof, and also to a process for preparing them. Of the commercially available antibiotics, ss lactam type antibiotics having a ss lactam ring, namely penicillins and cephalosporins, are beat known and frequently used. Although widely used as useful chemotherapeutic drugs, the ss lactam type antibiotics can not achieve satisfactory effects against some types of microorganisms because of resistance of the microorganism to the ss lactam type antibiotics. The resistance thereof are usually attributable to ss lactamase produced by the microorganism. The ss lactamase is an enzyme which acts to cleave the ss lactam ring of the ss lactam type antibiotic, thereby causing the antibiotic to lose its antimicrobial activity.For this reason, the action of ss lactamase must be eliminated or inhibited so as to enable the ss lactam type antibiotic to produce satisfactory effects. The elimination or inhibition of the ss lactamase activity can be achieved by ss lactamase inhibitors, which are used conjointly with the B lactam type antibiotic to increase the antimicrobial activity of the antibiotic. It is an object of the present. invention to provide novel compounds having excellent B lactamase inhibitory action. It is another object of the invention to provide processes for preparing the foregoing compounds. It is a further object of the invention to provide excellent B lactamase inhibitory agents. It is a still further object of the invention to provide pharmaceutical compositions which, when combined with B lactam type antibiotics, can increase the antibacterial activity of the antibiotics. The foregoing objects and other features of the invention will be described below in. detail. The penicillin derivatives of the present invention are represented by the formulaEMI2.1 wherein R1 and R2 are each the same or different and represent hydrogen atom, trialkylsilyl group, carboxyl group, carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or esterified carboxyl group. The penicillin derivatives of the present invention, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and esters thereof are all novel compounds and have B lactamase inhibitory properties, hence useful as ss lactamase inhibitory agents. The penicillin derivatives of the invention, when used in combination with a hnown ss lactam type antibiotic, can increase the antimicrobial activity of the ss lactam type antibiotic. Examples of antibiotics which can be used conjointly with the compounds of the present invention are ss lactam antibiotics which exhibit antibacterial action against gram positive or gram negative bacteria and which include commonly used penicillins such as ampicillin, amoxicillin, hetacillin, ciclacillin, mecillinam, carbenicillin, sulbenicillin, ticarcillin, piperacillin, apalcillin, methicil lin, mezlocil lin and salts thereof esters of penicillins such as bacampicillin, carindacillin, talampicillin, carfecillin and pivmecillinam cephalosporins such as cephaloridine, cephalothin, cephapirin, cephacetrile, cefazolin, cephalexin, cefradine, cefotiam, cefamandole, cefuroxime, cefoxitin, cefmetazole, cefsulodin, cefoperazone, cefotaxime, ceftizoxime, cefmenoxime, latamoxef, cefaclor, cefroxadine, cefatrizine, cefadroxil, cephaloglycin, and salts thereof, among which it is preferred to use ampicillin, amoxicillin, piperacillin, bacampicillin, talampicillin, pivmecillinam and cephalexin. The B lactam antibiotic is usually used in an amount of about 0.1 to about 10 parts by weight, preferably about 0.2 to about 5 parts by weight, per part by weight of the compound of the invention. The trialkylsilyl groups repr.esented by R1 andR2 in the formula I of the present compounds are those having, for example, straight chain or branched chain alkyl groups containing 1 to 6 carbon atoms such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, isobutyl, pentyl, hexyl, etc. The esterified carboxyl groups represented by R1 and R2 of the formula I are expressed by the formulaCOOR . The groups of R constituting the group COOR are ester residues which are carboxyl protecting groups acceptable in synthesis of compounds of the formula I and which are pharmaceutically acceptable. A pharmaceutically acceptable ester having such residue is an ester which is easily hydrolyzed in vivo and which is a non poisonous ester capable of rapidly decomposing in the blood or tissue of humans, thereby producing the corresponding acid of the formula I . Examples of the ester residues are any of the groups to be commonly used in preparing ss lactam type antibiotics, such as those disclosed. in Japanese Unexamined Patent PublicationNo.81380 1974 and H.E.Flynn, Cephalosporins andPenicillins, Chemistry and Biology published in 1972 by Academic Press . Specific examples of thereof are methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, tert butyl, pentyl, hexyl, decyl, undecyl, dodecyl, tetradecyl, hexadecyl, octadecyl and like CI 18 alkyl groups, iodomethyl, chloromethyl, 2, 2 dibromoethyl, 2,2,2trichloroethyl and like halogenated lower alkyl groups substituted with l to 3 halogen atoms such asC1, Br or I benzyl, p methoxybenzyl, o nitrobenzyl, p nitrobenzyl, diphenylmethyl and like methyl group substituted with 1 to 3 phenyl groups which may be unsubstituted or may be substituted with methoxy or nitro on the phenyl ring methoxymethyl, ethoxymethyl, n propyloxymethyl, iso propyloxymethyl, n butoxymethyl, iso butoxymethyl and like lower alkoxymethyl groups acetoxymethyl, propionyloxymethyl, n butyryloxymethyl, iso butyryloxymethyl, pivalyloxymethyl, l acetoxyethyl, l pivalyloxyethyl, l pivalyloxypropyl, l propionyloxybutyl and like lower alkyl carbonyloxy lower alkyl cyclopentylcarbonyloxymethyl, cyclohexylcarbonyloxymethyl and like C5 C7 cycloalkyl carbonyloxy lower alkyl groups benzylcarbonyloxymethyl and like benzylcarbonyloxy lower alkyl groups benzoyloxymethyl, benzoyloxyethyl and like benzoyloxy lower alkyl groups, etc. The term lower used in conjunction with alkyl or alkoxy is intended to indicate that each alkyl or alkoxy portion therein can contain 1 to 6 carbon atoms.The alkyl or alkoxy groupings can be straightor branched chain groups. Other examples of the ester residues represented by R are 3 phthalidyl, 4 crotonolactonyl, y butyrolacton 4 yl, substituted or unsubstituted phenyl, 2 oxo. 1,3 dioxoden 4 yl methyl, 5 methyl 2 oxo l ,3 dioxoden 4 yl methyl, 5 phenyl 2 oxo 1,3 dloxoden 4 yl methyl, tetrahydropyranyl, dimethylaminoethyl, dimethylchlorosilyl, trichlorosilyl, etc. Generally in the synthesis of penicillin compounds, ester protecting groups are used in the art to protect penicillin carboxyl groups or other carboxyl groups.While it is difficult to determine which esterprotecting group should be used, consideration are usually given to select esters in which the protecting group per se is sufficiently stable in the reaction and which does not permit cleavage of the S lactam ring in removal of the ester protecting groups. Most commonly used as such ester protecting groups are methyl group substituted with 1 to 3 phenyl groups which may be unsubstituted or may be substituted with methoxy or nitro on the phenyl ring, lower alkyl group and halogenated lower alkyl group.Examples of the ester protecting, groups which are pharmaceutically acceptable include lower alkylcarbonyloxy lower alkyl, C5 C7 cycloalkyl carbonyloxy lor alkyl, benzylcarbonyloxy lower alkyl, benzoyloxy lower alkyl, lactonyl, 5 sub or unsub 2 oxo l ,3 dioxodene 4 yl methyl, phthalidyl, etc. The carboxyl groups forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt represented by R1 and R2 of the formula I are residues of carboxylic acid salts which are pharmaceutically acceptable. Examples of such pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present compounds are salts of sodium, potassium, lithium or like alkali metals salts of calcium, magnesium or like alkaline earth metals salts of cyclohexylamine, trimethylamine diethanolamine or like organic amines salts of alginine, lysine or like basic amino acids ammonium salts etc. The compounds of the present invention can be esterified by utilizing the carboxyl group at the 3aposition, and the present invention covers such esters.Examples of the esters include any of pharmaceutically acceptable esters which are easily hydrolyzed in vivo and transformed into the corresponding free acid, i.e., the derivative of the formula I . Examples of the groups consisting the ester are the same as those described above as examples of the ester residues which are represented by R in the formula COOR of the esterified carboxyl group expressed by R1 and R2. Preferred examples of the derivatives of the formula 1 are those of the formulae I 1 to I 4 EMI8.1 wherein R represents hydrogen atom or lower alkyl group.EMI8.2 wherein R represents hydrogen atom or lower alkyl group.EMI8.3 wherein R6 represents hydrogen atom or carboxyl group. EMI9.1 wherein R1 and R2 are the same as those represented by R1 and R2, but at least one of them is trialkysilyl. The penicillin derivatives of the present invention having the formula I can be prepared by the processes as shown in reaction equation given below according to the kinds of the groups represented byR1 and R2. Reaction Equation lEMI9.2 EMI10.1 wherein R1 is as defined above, R3 represents penicillin carboxyl protecting group, and R4 represents trialkylsilyl group, carboxyl group, carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or esterified carboxyl group. Examples of the penicillin carboxyl protecting group represented by R3 include known groups such as any of those as described in Japanese Unexamined PatentPublication No.81380 1974 and H.E. Flynn, Cephalosporins and Penicillins, Chemistry and Biology published in 1972 by Academic Press . Preferable examples of the groups represented by R3 are methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, tert butyl, trichloroethyl, benzyl, diphenyl methyl, p nitrobenzyl, acetoxymethyl, acetoxyethyl, propionyloxyethyl, pivaloyloxyethyl, pivaloyloxypropyl, benzyloxy methyl, benzoyloxyethyl, benzylcarbonyloxymethyl, cyclohexylcarbonyloxymethyl, methoxymethyl, ethoxymethyl, benzyloxymethyl, tetrahydropyranyl, dimethylaminoethyl, dimethylchlorosilyl, trichlorosilyl, etc. Examples of the esterified carboxyl groups and carboxyl groups forming pharmaceutically acceptable salts represented by R4 are the same as those of the groups represented by R1 and R2 in the formula I .Examples of the trialkylsilyl groups represented by R4 are the same as those exemplified in respect of the trialkylsilyl group represented by R1 and R2 such as trialkylsilyl groups having methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, isobutyl, pentyl, hexyl, or like straight chain or branched chain lower alkyl groups. The steps A and B in Reaction Equation l will be described below in detail. Step A A penicillanic acid derivative of the formula 11 is reacted with an acetylene derivative of the formula III to provide a compound of the formula IV . The reaction is conducted in a suitable solvent by reacting a penicillanic acid of the formula II with an acetylene derivative of the formula III in an amount of about 1 to about 50 moles, preferably about 1 to about 10 moles, per mole of the derivative of the formula II . Usable as the solvents are an acetylene derivative of the formula III as used in excess amount or toluene, xylene or like aromatic hydrocarbons, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane or like ethers, acetone or like polar solvents, etc. The reaction is performed at a temperature in the range of about 50 C to a boiling point of the solvent, or a temperature of less than 2002C in a sealed reactor, and goes to completion usually in about 2 to about 72 hours.Depending upon the kind of the penicillin carboxylprotecting group represented by R3, the compound of the formula IV obtained may be the preferable contemplated product of the present invention, namely an ester which is easily hydrolyzed in vivo. More preferably the ester thus formed is subjected to de esterification as in the step B to obtain a penicillin derivative of the formula I a which, in turn, is converted in the conventional manner into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof, when required. The compound of the formula IV can be made into an ester as contemplated or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof by the conventional ester interchange or salt forming reaction.Step B The compound of the formula IV is subjected to de esterification after or without isolation from the reaction mixture resulting from the step A , whereby a penicillin derivative of the formula I a is produced. As the de esterification method, reduction, hydrolysis, treatment with an acid and like method can be employed for converting the carboxyl protecting group to carboxyl group. For example, if the carboxyl protecting group is dimethylchlorosilyl or trichlorosilyl, the reaction frequently proceeds with ease under mild hydrolysis conditions or by merely bringing the ester into contact with water. The reduction method is employed when the carboxyl protecting group is trichloroethylbenzyl., p nitrobenzyl, diphenyl methyl or the like. Treatment with an acid is adopted when the carboxyl protecting group is 4 methoxybenzyl, tert butyl, trityl, diphenylmethyl, methoxymethyl, tetrahydropyranyl or the like. The reduction can be conducted by treating the ester of the formula I a with a mixture of a zinc, zinc amalgam or like metal and or chromium chloride, chromium acetate or like chramium salt and b formic acid, acetic acid or like acid. Alternatively, the reduction can be conducted with use of a catalyst in hydrogen atmosphere in a solvent. Examples of the catalysts are platinum, platinum oxide, palladium, palladium oxide, palladium barium sulfate, palladiumcalcium carbonate, palladium carbon, nickel oxide,Raney nickel, etc.The solvents are not particularly limited so far as they do not affect the reaction, and include methanol, ethanol and like alcohols tetrahydrofuran, dioxane and like ethers ethyl acetate and like esters acetic acid and like fatty acids and a mixture of these organic solvents and water The acids useful for eliminating the carboxylprotecting group of the ester of the formula I a are formic acid, acetic acid and like lower fatty acids trichioroacetic acid, trifluoroacetic acid and like trihalogenated acetic acids hydrochloric acid, hydro fluoric acid and like hydrohalogenic acids p toluenesulfonic acid, trifluoromethane sulfonic acid and like organic sulfonic acids and a mixture of these.In this reaction, when the acid used is in a liquid state and acts also as a solvent, it is not necessary to use other solvents. However, dimethylformamide, dichloromethane, chloroform, tetrahydrofuran, acetone and like solvents which do not affect the reaction may be used. The penicillin derivative of the present invention having the formula I a in the form of free acid can be transformed by the salt forming reaction or esterification commonly employed in the art into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester as contemplated. If the ester residue is, for example, 3 phthalidyl, crotonolacton 4 yl, y butyrolacton 4 yl or like group, the penicillin derivative of the formula I a can be alkylated by using 3 halogenated phthalide, 4 halogenated crotonolactone, 4 halogenated r butyrolactone or the like. Suitable halogens of the foregoing halides include chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc. The reaction is carried out by dissolving the salt of the penicillin derivative of the formula I a in N,N dimethylformamide or like suitable polar organic solvent and adding an approximately equimolecular amount of a halide to the solution.The reaction temperature ranges from about 0 to about 100 C, preferably from about 15 to about 35 C. Suitable salts of the penicillin derivative to be used in the esterification are salts of sodium, potassium or like alkali metals salts of triethylamine, ethyldiisopropylamine, N ethylpiperidine,N,N dimethylaniline, N methylmorpholine or like tertiary amines, etc. After completion of the reaction, the contemplated product can be easily separated by the conventional method and also can be purified, when required, by recrystallization, thin layer chromatography, column chromatography or like method. The compounds of the formula II to be used as the starting material in the step A is a novel compound undisclosed in literature and can be synthesized by the method described in Japanese Patent ApplicationNo.69142 1982 relating to an invention accomplished by us . The disclosed method comprises the steps of reacting a metal azide with a known derivative of penicillanic acid of the formula EMI16.1 wherein X represents chlorine atom or bromine atom and R3 represents penicillin carboxyl protecting group, oxydizing the reaction mixture and subjecting the resulting compound to de esterification. The foregoing method will be described below in detail. The reaction between the compound of the formula V and the metal azide is conducted in a suitable solvent by using the metal azide in an amount of about I to about 50 moles, preferably about 1 to about 10 moles, per mole of the compound of the formula V . Examples of the metal azides which can be used include those commonly used, such as sodium azide, potassium azide and like azides of alkali metals, and barium azide and like azides of alkaline earth metals. Useful solvents are not particularly limited as far as they do not affect the reaction. Examples of useful solvents are dimethylformamie, ethyl acetate, acetone, dichloromethane, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, metanol, ethanol and like organic solvents. These organic solvents can be used singly or in mixtures. Also a mixture of such solvent and water is usable.The reaction proceeds at a temperature of usually about 20 to about 100 C, preferably about 0 to about 100 C. The resulting product can be used in subsequent oxidation without isolation, or alternatively after isolation and purification by a conventional method. The oxidation subsequent to the azide forming reaction is conducted by using an oxidizing agent commonly employed such as permanganic acid, periodic acid, peracetic acid, performic acid, trifluoroperacetic acid, perbenzoic acid, m chloroperbenzoic acid, hydrogen peroxide, etc.The oxidizing agent can be used in large excess, and may be employed preferably in an amount of about 1 to about 2 moles per mole of the starting compound. The oxidation is carried out usually in a suitable solvent. Useful solvents include any of those which do not affect the oxidation reaction such as chloroform, pyridine, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, methylene chloride, carbon tetrachloride, acetic acid, formic acid, dimethylformamide, water, etc. The oxidation is performed at a temperature which is not particularly limited but generally ranges from room temperature to cooling temperature, preferably about 0 to about 30 C. The compound thus obtained is subjected to de esterification whereby the compound of the formula II can be produced. The de esterification is effected under the same conditions as mentioned above in respect of the step B . The process for preparing the compound of the formula II is described in detail in reference examples to be set forth later.Reaction Equation 2EMI18.1 In the foregoing formulae R3 is defined above, R11 and R4 are the same groups as those represented byR1 and R4 and at least one of them is trialkylsilyl group, and R5 represents hydrogen atom, carboxyl group, carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or esterified carboxyl group. Examples of the esterified carboxyl group and carboxyl group forming a pharmaceutically acceptable salt represented by R5 in the foregoing formulae are the same as those mentioned above as groups represented by R1 andR2 in the formula I . The compound of the formula I wherein at least one of R1 and R2 is hydrogen atom, namely the compound of the formula I b , can be prepared by the process shown above in Reaction Equation 2. The steps in the process are set forth below in detail.Step C The compound of the formula II is reacted with a compound of the formula III in a solvent such as dichloromethane, dichloroethane, chloroform or like halogenated hydrocarbons. During this reaction, reaction for removing the trialkylsilyl group proceeds at the same time, whereby a compound of the formula VI is produced. Useful solvents are not particularly limited as far as they are halogenated hydrocarbons. The reaction conditions including the reaction temperature, the proportions of the reagents to be used and the reaction time are similar to those in the step A . Depending upon the kind of the penicillin carboxyl protecting group represented by R3, the compound of the formula VI thus obtained may be the preferable product as contemplated, i.e., an ester of the penicillin derivative of the formula I which is easily hydrolyzed in vivo. More preferably the ester is subjected to de esterification as in the step B so that the compound is transformed to a penicillin derivative of the present invention having the formula I b which is converted, when required, in the conventional manner into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or ester thereof as contemplated.Step D The compound of the formula VI is subjected to de esterification after or without isolation from the reaction product obtained in the step C , whereby a penicillin derivative of the formula I b is produced.The de esterification is carried out under the same conditions as those described above in respect of the step B . The compound of the formula VI can be prepared by the process in the step C and also by the process to be set forth below in a step E . Step E The compound of the formula IV obtained in the step A as shown in Reaction Equation l wherein at least one of R1 and R4 is trialkylsilyl, namely the compound of the formula IV , is subjected to reaction for removing the trialkylsilyl in the presence of potassium fluoride after or without isolation from the reaction product obtained in the step A , whereby a compound of the formula VI is produced.The trialkylsilyl removing reaction is conducted in a suitable solvent by using potassium chloride in an amount of over about 1 mole, preferably about 1 mole, and a catalyst in an amount of about 1 50 to about 1 10 mole, both per mole of the compound of the formula IV . Useful as the catalyst is a phase transfer catalyst such. as quaternary ammonium salt of crown ether or the like. Examples of useful solvents are any suitable solvents which do not affect the reaction and which include benzene, toluene, xylene or like aromatic hydrocarbons acetonitrile,N,N dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide or like nonprotonic polar solvents etc. The reaction temperature and reaction time are appropriately determined.Generally the reaction is performed at a temperature in the range of room temperature to about 100 C, and completes in about 1 to about 10 hours. Reaction Equation 3EMI22.1 In the foregoing formulae R3 is as defined above, and R6 represents acyloxy group. Examples of the acyloxy groups represented byR6 are lower acyloxy groups having 2 to 5 carbon atoms such as acetoxy, propionyloxy, butyryloxy, valeryloxy or like aliphatic acyloxy groups and benzoyloxy or like aromatic acyloxy groups, etc. The compound of the formula I wherein R1 and R2 are hydrogen atoms, namely the compound of the formula r c , can be produced by the process as shown above in Reaction Equation 3. The steps F and G in Reaction Equation 3 will be described below in detail.Step F The penicillanic acid derivative of the formula II is reacted with the vinyl derivative of the formula VII while reaction for removing the acyloxy group represented by R6 in the formula VII is carried out, whereby a compound of the formula VIII is prepared. The reaction between the penicillanic acid derivative of the formula II and the vinyl derivative of the formula VII is conducted in the presence of or in the absence of a suitable solvent by using the vinyl derivative of the formula VII in an amount of at least about 1 mole, preferably about 1 to about 200 moles, per mole of the derivative of the formula II , whereby there occurs simultaneously the acyloxy removing reaction. The solvents which can be used are not particularly limited as far as they do not affect the reaction. Specific examples thereof are benzene, toluene, xylene or like aromatic hydrocarbons, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane or like ethers, etc.The reaction is effected at a. temperature ranging from about 50 C to a boiling point of the solvent, or a temperature of less than 200 C in a sealed reactor, and is completed in. about 2 to about 72 hours. Depending on the kind of the penicillin carboxyl protecting group represented by R3 in the formula VIII , the compound of the formula VIII thus obtained may be the preferable product as contemplated, namely the ester of the penicillin derivative of the formula I which is easily hydrolyzed in vivo.More preferably the compound of the formula VIII thus prepared is subjected to de esterification as in the step B so that the compound is converted by the conventional method into a penicillin derivative of the formula I c which, in turn, is transformed by the conventional method into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or ester thereof as contemplated. The compound of the formula VIII can be made into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or ester thereof as contemplated by conducting an ester interchange or salt forming reaction in the conventional manner.Step G The compound of the formula CVIII is subjected to de esterification after or without isolation from the reaction product obtained in the step F , whereby a penicillin derivative of the formula I c as contemplated is produced. The reaction conditions for de esterification are the same as those described in the step B . After completion of the reaction in each step, the contemplated compound producible in each step, a pharmaceutically accceptable salt thereof and ester thereof as contemplated which is easily hydrolyzed in vivo can be isolated from the reaction product or, when required, can be purified by the conventional method such as recrystallization method, thin layer chromatography, column chromatography or the like. The penicillin derivative of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or ester thereof is mixed with the ss lactam type antibiotic substance to form a preparation which is orally or parenterally administered. Alternatively, the present compound and a suitable antibiotic can be separately administered. Thus the derivatives of the formula I can be used for treating infectious disease of human beings and other animals. The composition of the present invention may be made into tablets, pills, capsules, granules, powders, syrups, lozenges, solutions, suspensions, etc. for oral administration and aqueous, suspending or water soluble preparations for intravenous, subcutaneous or intramuscular injections. Carriers useful in formulating the preparations are commonly used pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic carriers such as gelatin, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, talc, vegetable oil, animal oil, polyalkylene glycol, etc. The carrier maybe used with other additives such as diluents, binders, buffer agents, preservatives, glazes, disintegrators, coating agents, etc. The daily dose of the preparation can be appropriately determined and is not particularly limited.Preferably the daily dose is such that the total amount of the present compound and ss lactam antibiotic is about 1 to about 200 mg Kg body weight for oral administration and about 1 to about 100 mg Kg body weight for parenteral administration. The present invention will be described below in more detail with reference to examples given below. Reference Example 1Preparation of benzhydryl 2ss azidomethyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate A solution of 5.00 g of sodium azide in 53 ml of water was added to a solution of benzhydryl 2ss chloro methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 5.13 g in dimethylformamide 155 ml . The mixture was stirred at room tem perature for 4 hours. The resulting reaction mixture was poured into cooled water and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layer was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to provide 4.87 g of the contemplated product as oil in 97 yield.Infrared absorption spectrum nujol v max cm Ú 2120, 1812, 1765Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 6 ppm 1.30 3H, s , 3.25 2H, m , 3.42 1H, d , 3.63 111, d , 4.75 1H, s , 4.76 1H, m , 7.00 1H, s , 7.40 10H, s Reference Example 2Preparation of benzhydryl 22 azidomethyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l, 1 dioxide To a solution of benzhydryl 2ss azidomethyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 7.03 g in a mixture of acetic acid 240 ml and water 40 ml was added potassium permanganate 6.02 g over a period of more than 1 hour.The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2.5 hours.The resulting reaction mixture was diluted with ice water.The precipitate was collected by filtration, and washed with water. The resulting product was dissolved in ethyl acetate and the solution was washed with an aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate and dried over magnesium sulfate. Concentration gave 5.48 g of the contemplated product in 72 Z yield.Infrared absorption spectrum nujol max cm Ú 2120, 1812, 1765Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 6 ppm 1.18 3H, s , 3.50 2H, d , 3.72 1H, d , 3.93 1H, d , 4.60 1H, m , 4.65 1H, s , 7.00 1H, s , 7.36 10H, s Reference Example 3Preparation of p nitrobenzyl 2ss azidomethyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate The procedure of Reference Example 1 was repeated with the exception of using as the starting material p nitrobenzyl 2ss chloromethyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate, affording the above contemplated compound. Infrared absorption spectrum KBr vmax cm Ú 2120, 1798, 1760 Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 6 ppm 1.40 3H, s , 3.12 1H, dd , 3.50 2H, s , 3.62 1H, dd , 4.83 1H, s , 5.29 2H, s , 5.36 1H, dd , 7.56 2H, d , 8.26 2H, d Reference Example 4Preparation of p nitrobenzyl 2ss azidomethyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide The procedure of Reference Example 2 was followed with the exception of using as the starting material p nitrobenzyl 2ss azidomethyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate, giving the above contemplated compound.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 2120, 1770Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 6 ppm 1.42 C3H, s , 3.45 3.60 2H, m , 3.75 1H, d , 3.96 1H, d , 4.56 4.75 1H, m , 4.64 1H, s , 5.33 2H, s , 7.56 2H, d , 8.26 C2H, d Example 1Preparation of p nitrobenzyl 2B 4 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2 methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 1 and p nitrobenzyl 2ss 5 ethoxy carbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 2 A 2.1 g quantity of p nitrobenzyl 2ss azido methyl 2ss methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide and 0.63 g of ethylpropiolic acid in 62 ml of benzene were refluxed with stirring under nitrogen atmosphere for 37 hours. The solvent was removed by distillation and the residue was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel to produce as a first eluted product 0.7 g of p nitrobenzyl 2B 5 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide in amorphous form Compound 2 in 27 Z yield.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1795, 1755, 1727Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 6 ppm 1.39 3H , s , 1.39 3H, t , 3.48 3.60 2H, m , 4.39 2H, q , 4.58 4.70 1H, m , 5.11 1H, s , 5.14 1H, d , 5.25 1H, d , 5.31 1H, d , 5.56 1H, d , 7.54. 2H, d , 8.09 1H, s , 8.25 2H, d . There was obtained as a second eluted product 1.6 g of p nitrobenzyl 22 4 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide in amorphous form Compound 1 in 62 Z yield.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1800, 1760 sh , 1733Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 ô ppm 1.34 3H, s , 1.41 C 3H, t , 3.50 3.65 2H, m , 4.42 C2H, q , 4.60 4.75 2H, m , 5.09 2H, s , 5.36 2H, s , 7.59 2H, d , 8.28 2H, d , 8.30 1H, s Example 2Preparation of p nitrobenzyl 2ss 4 methoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1dioxide Compound 3 and p nitrobenzyl 2ss 5 methoxy carbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 4 The contemplated product was synthesized in the same manner as in Example 1 and eluted by column chromatography on silica gel.There was obtained as a first eluted product p nitrobenzyl 2ss 5 methoxy carbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a m carboxylate l,l dioxide in amorphous form Compound 4 in 26 X yield.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr M max cm 1 1795, 1727Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 d ppm 1.39 3H, s , 3.45 3.60 2H, m , 3.94 C3H, s , 4.58 4.70 1H, m , 5.09 1H, s , 5.10 5.64 4H, m , 7.54 2H, d , 8.10 1H, s , 8.25 2H, d . There was obtained as a second eluted product p nitrobenzyl 2ss 4 methoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide in amorphous form Compound 3 in 61 Z yield.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm Ú 1798, 1730Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 6 ppm 1.33 3H, s , 3.48 3.68 2H, m , 3.96 C3H, s , 4.56 4.76 211, m 5.09 2H, s , 5.36 2H, s , 7.60 211, d , 8.28 2H, d , 8.30 1H, s . Example 3Preparation of benzhydryl 2B 4 methoxycarbony1 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 5 and benzhydryl 2ss 5 methoxy carbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 6 The contemplated product was synthesized in the same manner as in Example 1 and eluted by column chromatography on silica gel. First there was eluted benzhydryl 2ss 5 methoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l , 1 dioxideCompound 6 in 18 Z yield. Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1800, 1727Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 ppm 1.20. 3H, s , 3.44 3.58 2H,m , 3.91 3H, s , 4 50 4.65 C1H, m , 5.24 1H, d , 5.25 1H, s , 5.45 1H, d , 6.91 1H, s , 7.20 7.40 10H, m , 8.08 1H, s . Secondly there was eluted benzhydryl 2ss 4 methoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide compound 5 in 60 Z yield.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr l v max cm 1803, 1727 Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 ppm 1.05 3H, s , 3.48 3.62 2H, m , 3.95 3H, s , 4.55 4.75 2H, m , 5.11 2H, bs , 7.02 C1H, s , 7.20 7.50 10H, m , 8.25 1H, s . Example 4Preparation of sodium 2ss 4 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 a methylpenam 3 a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 7 Hydrogenation was conducted at a low pressure and at room temperature by using 15 ml of ethyl acetate, 15 ml of water, 340 mg of p nitrobenzyi 2ss 4 ethoxy carbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l,l dioxide, 60 mg of 10 Z palladium charcoal and 110 mg of sodium hydrogencarbonate. After completion of absorption of hydrogen, the reaction mixture was filtered to separate the aqueous layer which was washed with benzene.The aqueous solution was concentrated at reduced pressure and the concentrate was subjected to column chromatography using an MCI gel, CHP 20 P product of Mitsubishi Kasei Co., Ltd., Japan to conduct gradient elution with a water 10 Z acetone water mixture. The eluate thus obtained was freezedried to afford 200 mg of the contemplated product Compound 7 as white powder in 76 Z yield. The white powder decomposed at a temperature of more than 1800C.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm Ú 1782, 1720Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D20 ppm 1.39 3H, t , 1.46 C3H, s , 3.45 1H, dd , 3.72 1H, dd , 4.44 C2H, q , 4.50 1H, s , 4.96 5.10 1H, m , 5.18 1H, d , 5.42 1H, d , 8.72 1H, s Example 5Preparation of 2ss 4 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylic acid l,l dioxide Compound 8 Hydrogenation was conducted at room temperature and at a pressure of 3 atm. by using 4.2 g of p nitrobenzyl 2ss 4 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l,1 dioxide, 1.4 g of sodium hydrogencarbonate, 800 mg of 10 Z palladium charcoal, 100 ml of ethyl acetate and 100 ml of water.After completion of absorption of hydrogen, the reaction mixture was filtered and the aqueous layer was separated and washed with benzene. The pH of the aqueous layer was adjusted to 1 to 2 with hydrochloric acid. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate and the extract was dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off and 3.0 g of the contemplated compound was produced in amorphous form in 97 Z yield.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr M max cm 1798, 1726Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum DMSO d6 6 ppm 1.31 3H, t , 1.42 3H, s , 3.31 1H, dd , 3.73 C1H, dd , 4.32 2H, q , 4.75 5.38 4H, m , 8.76 1H, s Example 6Preparation of chloromethyl 2B 4 ethoxycarbonyl l,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate1,1 dioxide Compound 9 A 2.2 g quantity of sodium hydrogencarbonate and 0.2 g of tetrabutylsimnonium hydrogensulfate were added with stirring at a temperature of less than 10 C to 2.4 g of 2ss 4 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylic acid 1,1 dioxide, 13.5 ml of dichloromethane and 13.5 ml of water. To the mixture was dropwise added at the same temperature 1.25 g of chloromethyl chlorosulfonate and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes.The organic layer was separated, washed once with. water and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was removed by distillation and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel, giving 2 2 g of the contemplated compound in amorphous form in 81 Z yield.Infrared absorption spectrum per v max cm Ú 1798, 1723Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 6 ppm 1.42 3H, t , 1.48 3H, s , 3.52 3.65 C2H, m , 4.36 2H, q , 4.60 4.78 C2H, m , 5.10 2H, s , 5.73 C1H, d , 5.90 1H, d , 8.31 IH, s Example 7Preparation of iodomethyl 2ss 4 ethoxycarbonyL 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 10 A 1.73 g quantity of chloromethyl 2B 4 ethoxyearbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylic acid l,l dioxide and 1.3 g of sodium iodide were stirred in 3.4 ml of acetone at room temperature for 18 hours. To the reaction mixture was added 2.9 ml of water and the pH of the resulting mixture was adjusted to 7 to 8 with an aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate. After addition of 2.9 ml of water, the mixture was decolorized with an aqueous solution of 0.5 M sodium thiosulfate, extracted with dichloromethane, washed with water and dried over magnesium sulfate.The solvent was removed by distillation and 1.9 g of the contemplated compound was prepared in amorphous form in 90 Z yeild.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm 1 1798, 1725Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 6 ppm 1.42 3H, t , 1.49 C3H, s , 3.52 3.68 2H, m , 4.43 2H, q , 4.59 4.78 2H, m , 5.09 2H, s , 5.96 1H, d , 6.07 1H, d , 8.32 C1H, s Example 8Preparation of sodium 2B 5 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 11 A 222 mg of the contemplated compound was prepared in the form of white powder in the same manneras in Example 4 from 0.34 g of p nitrobenzyl 2ss 5 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methy 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide in 83 Z yield. The white powder thus obtained decomposed at a temperature of over 180 C.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1788, 1736Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D2O 6 ppm 1.39 3H, t , 1.43 C3H, s , 140 1H, dd , 3.71 1H, dd , 4.46 2H, q , 4.57 1H, s , 4.96 5.05 1H, m , 5.40 1H, d , 5.82 1H, d , 8.34 1H, s Example 9Preparation of sodium 2ss 4 methoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 12 A 0.18 g quantity of the contemplated product was prepared as white powder in the same manner as in Example 4 from 0.3 g of p nitrobenzyl 22 4 methoxy carbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3 carboxylate l,l dioxide in 78 Z yield. The white powder thus obtained decomposed at a temperature of over 184 C.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr l v max cm 1782, 1730 Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D20 6 ppm 1.46 3H, s , 3.45 1H, dd , 3.73 CIH, dd , 3.97 3H, s , 4.50 1H, s , 4.81 211, s , 4.98 5.10 1H, m , 5.18 C1H, d , 5.42 1H, d , 8.72 1H, s Example 10Preparation of sodium 2ss 5 methoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 13 A 0.19 g quantity of the contemplated compound was prepared as white powder in the same manner as inExample 4 from 0.3 g of p nitrobenzyl 2ss 5 methoxy carbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate l,l dioxide in 82 yield. The white powder thus obtained decomposed at a temperature of over 1800C. Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm Ú 1778, 1730Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D20 d ppm 1.41 3H, s , 3.41 1H, dd , 3.71 1H, dd , 3.98 3H, s , 4.56 1H, s , 4.95 5.08 lH, m , 5.40 1H, d , 5.83 1H, d , 8.34 1H, s Example IIProparation of p nitrobenzyl 2a methyl 2B r4 p nitro benzyloxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3 alpha carbonylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 14 and p nitrobenzyl 2a methyl 2ss C5 p nitrobenzyloxyearbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 15 A 4 g quantity of p nitrobenzyl 2ss adidomethyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide and 8.2 g of p nitrobenzyl acetylene carboxylate in 100 ml of benzene were refluxed under nitrogen atmosphere for 12 hours.The solvent was distilled off at reduced pressure.The residue was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel to provide 3.6 g of p nitrobenzyl 2a methyl 2ss C4 p nitrobenzyloxyearbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 14 and 0.9 g of p nitrobenzyl 2a methyl 2ss 5 p nitro benzyloxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3acarboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 15 both in amorphous form.Compound 14Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm 1800, 1740Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 d ppm 1.34 C3H, s , 3.3 3.8 C2H, m , 4.67 1H, s , 4.60 4.76 1H, m 5.12 2H, s , 5.37 C2H, s , 5.48 C2H, s , 7.5 7.7 C4H, m , 8.1 8.3 4H, m , 8.37 1H, s .Compound 15Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm 1800, 1740Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 6 ppm 1.41 C3H, s , 3.3 3.7 2H, m , 4.6 4.7 1H, m , 5.07 1H, s , 5.1 5.6 C4H, m , 5.46 2H, s , 7.4 7.7 C4H, m , 8.15 1H, s , 8.1 8.4 4H, m Example 12Preparation of dipotassium 2ss 4 carboxyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 16 Hydrogenation was conducted in 100 ml of ethyl acetate and 100 ml of water at room temperature for 1 hour by using 3.6 g of p nitrobenzyl 2a methyl2ss 4 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl ,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide, 2.0 g sodium hydrogencarbonate and 0.68 g of 10 Z palladium charcoal, catalyst. Thereafter the aqueous layer was separated and was washed once with ethyl acetate, and the pK thereof was adjusted to 1.5 to 1.7 with 6 N hydrochloric acid. The aqueous solution was saturated with sodium chloride and extracted a few times with ethyl acetate.The ethyl acetate solutions thus formed were collected and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off at reduced pressure to provide as the residue a foamed product of 2ss 4 carboxy 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylic acid. A 2 g quantity of the 28 4 carboxy 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylic acid was dissolved in 20 ml of butanol. To the solution was added a solution of potassium 2 ethyl hexanoate in butanol, and the mixture was stirred awhile at room temperature. The precipitate was filtered to give 2.0 g of white solids having a melting point of over 178 C decomposition . Infrared absorption spectrum D20 1 U max cm 1780, 1610Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D20 d ppm 1.47 3H, s , 3.49 1H, dd , 3.77 lH, dd , 4.53 1H, s , 5.0 5.1 1H, m , 5.16 1H, d , 5.41 IH, d , 8.47 1H, s Example 13Preparation of dipotassium 2ss 5 carboxy 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 17 White solid of the contemplated compound with a melting point of over 175 C decomposition was prepared in the same manner as in Example 12 by using p nitrobenzyl 2 alpha methyl 2ss 5 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide. Infrared absorption spectrum KBr vmax cm Ú 1780, 1610Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D20 ppm 1.40 C3H, s , 3.43 1H, dd , 3.71 1H, dd , 4.58 1H, s , 4.9 5.1 1H, m , 5.36 1H, d , 5.93 1H, d , 8.04 C1H, s Example 14Preparation of benzhydryl 2ss 4 carboxyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 18 .A 0.5 g quantity of benzhydryl 2ss azidomethyL 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide and 0.083 g of acetylenecarboxylic acid were stirred in 2 ml of dichloromethane at room temperature under nitrogen atmosphere for 24 hours.The solvent was removed by distillation at reduced pressure and to the residuaI oil was added benzene. The insolubles were filtered off and to the residue was added hexane to deposit crystals which were collected by filtration. Thus there was produced 0.23 g of white crystals which melt at 120 to 121 C.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1805, 1745Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum 6 ppm 1.07 3H, s , 3.2 3.8 2H, m , 4.5 4.7 lH, m , 4.69 111, s , 5.12 2H, bs , 7.02 1H, s , 7.1 7.6 10H, m , 8.33 1H, s Example 15Preparation of disodium 2ss 4 carboxy 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l ,l dioxide Compound 19 Hydrogenation was conducted in 10 ml of ethyl acetate and 10 ml of water at room temperature for 30 minutes by using 49 mg of benzhydryl 2B 4 carboxy 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l,l dioxide, 15 ml of 10 Z palladium charcoal and 24 mg of sodium hydrogencarbonate. The aqueous layer was separated from the reaction mixture and washed with ethyl acetate, and was purified with an MCI gel,CHP 20P product of Mitsubishi Kasei Co., Ltd., Japan .After freeze drying, there was obtained a white amorphous product having a melting point of 220 to 2500C decomposition . The values of the infrared absorption spectrum and nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of the compound thus obtained were similar to those ofCompound 16 prepared in Example 12. Example 16Preparation of benzhydryl 2a methyl 22 4 trimethylsilyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3a carboxylate dioxide Compound 20 A 150 mg quantity of benzhydryl 2B azidomethyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l ,l dioxide was reacted in a sealed reactor with 300 mg of trimethylsilylacetylene at 90 to 95 C for 20 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated at reduced pressure, giving 170 mg of white crystals which melt at 172 to 1750C. Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm 1 1805, 1755Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl,3 d ppm 0.32 9H, s , 1.05 3H, s , 3.3 3.7 C2H, m , 4.5 4.7 1H, m , 4.65 1H, s , 5.08 2H, AB q , 7.00 1H, s , 7.3 7.5 1OH, m , 7.67 1H, s Example 17Preparation of benzhydryl 2c methyl 2ss 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 21 A 133 mg quantity of benzhydryl 2 alpha methyl 2ss 4 trimethylsilyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate l,l dioxide, 3.26 g of 18 crown 6 1,4,7,10, 13,16 hexaoxacyclooctadecane and 15.8 mg of potassium fluoride were stirred in 0.7 ml of N,N dimethylformamide at 50 to 60 C for 5.5 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into excess iced water and the mixture was extracted a few times with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate extracts were collected and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off at reduced pressure and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel, whereby a white product was given which has a melting point of 206 to 2084C decomposition . Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1800, 1760Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 ppm 1.05 3H, s , 3.3 3.7 2H, m , 4.5 4.7 1H, m , 4.65 1H, s , 5.10 2H, AB q , 7.00 1H, s , 7.3 7.5 cloy, m , 7.73 1H, s Example 18Preparation of benzhydryl 2a methyl 2B 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 21 A 500 mg quantity of benzhydryl 2B azidomethyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide, 335 mg of trimethylsilylacetylene and 2 ml of methylene chloride were reacted in a sealed reactor at 950C for 20 hours.The reaction mixture was concentrated at reduced pressure and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel to provide white solids having a melting point of 203 to 2040C decomposition .Fast atomic bombardment mass spectrum method m e 467 M The values of the infrared absorption spectrum and nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of te compound thus obtained were identical with those of Compound 21 obtained in Example 17. Example 19Preparation of benzhydryl 2a methyl 2S Cl,2,3 triazole l yl methylpenam 3a carboxylate l ,l dioxide Compound 21 A 200 mg quantity of benzhydryl 2ss azidomethyl Sa methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide was reacted with. 10 ml of vinyl acetate in a sealed reactor at 100 to 110 C for 30 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated at reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized with cooled chloroform. The white crystals thus obtained were found to have a melting point decomposition and the values of the nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum which were all identical with the values of Compound 21 obtained inExample 17. Example 20Preparation of sodium 2a methyl 28 1,2,3 triazole l yl methylpenan 3a carboxylate l ,l dioxide Compound 22 Hydrogenation was conducted in 10 ml of ethyl acetate and 10 ml of water at room temperature for 30 minutes by using 45 mg of benzhydryl 2a methyl 2B 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3 carboxylate 1,1 dioxide, 15 mg of 10 palladium charcoal and 16 mg of sodium hydrogencarbonate. The aqueous layer was separated from the reaction mixture and washed once with ethyl acetate. The aqueous solution was then purified with an MCI gel, CHP 20P product of Mitsubishi Kasei Co., Ltd.,Japan . After freeze drying, there was obtained an amorphous product with a melting point of over 1700C decomposition .Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 3430, 1780, 1630Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D20 ppm 1.41 C3H, s , 3.45 1H, dd , 3.72 lH, dd , 4.48 1H, s , 4.96 5.10 1H, m , 5.25 2H, AB q , 7.85 1H, d , 8.13 1H, d Example 21Preparation of p nitrobenzyl 2a methyl 2ss 1,2,3 triazole l yl methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 23 A 1.02 g quantity of p nitrobenzyl 2B azido methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide was reacted with 50 ml of vinyl acetate in a sealed reactor at 100 to 110 C for 3 hours.The reaction mixture was concentrated at reduced pressure and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel, giving 0.73 g of the contemplated compound in amorphous form 4 in 67 yield which melts at 182 to 184 C. Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1800, 1760Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 6 ppm 1.26 3H, s , 3.5 3.6 2H, m , 4.66 1H, s 4.6 4.7 1H, m 5.07 2H, s , 5.36 2H, s , 7.61 2H, d , 7.74 lH, d , 7.80 1H, d , 8.28 2H, d Example 22Preparation of sodium 2 alpha methyl 2ss 4 trimethylsilyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3ct carboxylatew dioxide Compound 24 Hydrogenation was performed in 15 ml of ethyl acetate and 15 ml of water at room temperature for 30 minutes by using 200 mg of benzhydryl 2 alpha methyl 2ss 4 trimethylsilyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate l,l dioxide, 50 mg of 10 palladium charcoal and 98 mg of sodium hydrogencarbonate. The aqueous layer was removed from the reaction mixture and washed once with ethyl acetate. The aqueous solution was purified with an MCI gel, CHP 20P product of Mitsubishi KaseiCo., Ltd., Japan . After freeze drying, there was obtained an amorphous product having a melting point of over 1700C decomposition . Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 3440, 1780, 1630Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D20 d ppm 0.32 9H, s , 1.38 3H, s , 3.1 3.7 2H, m , 4.46 lH, s , 4.9 5.0 lH, m , 5.23 ZR, AB q , 8.16 1H, s Example 23Preparation of benzhydryl 2ss 4,5 dimethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 25 A 0.870 g quantity of benzhydryl 2i3 azidomethyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l,1 dioxide and 0.618 g of dimethylacetylenedicarboxylate in 15 ml of benzene were refluxed with stirring under nitrogen atmosphere for 18 hours.The solvent was distilled off and the residue was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of ethyl acetate and chloroform in the ratio of 1 3. There was obtained 0.495 g of the contemplated compound as pale yellow crystals with a melting point of 75 to 770C in 44 Z yield. Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm Ú 1800, 1735Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 ô ppm 1.20 3H, s , 3.48 2H, t , 3.97 3H, s , 3.98 3H, s , 4.59 lH, m , 4.95 1H, s , 5.26 2H, s , 6.97 1H, s , 7.36 lOH, s Example 2.4Preparation of sodium 2ss X4,5 dimethoxyearbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyS 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 26 Hydrogenation was conducted at room temperature by using 100 ml of tetrahydrofuran, 100 ml of water, 116 mg of benzhydryl 2B 4,5 dimethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l, 1 dioxide, 58 mg of 10 Z palladium charcoal and 17 mg of sodium hydrogencarbonate. After completion of absorption of hydrogen, the reaction liquid was filtered and the tetrahydrofuran was removed from the filtrate by distillation at reduced pressure. The residue was washed with chloroform and the aqueous solution was concentrated at reduced pressure. The concentr ate was subjected to column chromatography using an MCI gel,, CHP 20P product ofMitsubishi Kasei Co., Ltd., Japan and gradiently eluted with a water 10 acetone water mixture. The eluate thus obtained was freeze dried to provide 53 mg of the contemplated product as white powder in 60 Z yield. The white powder decomposed at a temperature of over 165 C. Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1785, 1735, 1630Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D20 s ppm 1.41 3H, s , 3..40 1H, dd , 3.80 1, dd , 3.98 3H, s , 4.05 3H, s , 4.51 1H, s , 5.03 1H, dd , 5.48 2H, d Example 25Preparation of 2ss 4,5 dimethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylic acid 1,1dioxide Compound 27 Hydrogenation was carried out in 100 ml of tetrahydrofuran and 100 mL of water at room temperature by using 116 mg of benzhydryl 28 4, 5 dimethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2Åa methylpenam 3a carboxylate l,l dioxide, 58 mg of 10 Z palladium charcoal and 17 mg of sodium hydrogencarbonate. After completion of absorption of hydrogen, the reaction liquid was filtered and the tetrahydrofuran was distilled off from the filtrate at reduced pressure. The residue was washed with chloroform. After adjusting its pH to 1.5 to 1.7 with diluted hydrochloric acid, the aqueous solution was washed with chloroform, extracted with ethyl acetate and dried over magnesium sulfate. The ethyl acetate was distilled off at reduced pressure, and the residue was dissolved in water. The solution was freeze dried to provide 83 mg of amorphous product in 76 Z yield which has a melting point of 135 to 145CC decomposition .Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1805, 1735 Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 DMSO d6 6 ppm 1.55 C3H, s , 3.2 3.6 2R, m , 3.96 3H, s , 4.02 3R, s , 4.68 1H, s , 4.6 4.8 1H, m 5.35 2H s Example 26Preparation of chloromethyl 2ss 4,5 dimethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 28 A 1.25 g quantity of sodium hydrogencarbonate and 0.133 g of tetrabutylammonium hydrogensulfate were added with stirring at less than 10 C to 1.61 g of 2ss 4,5 dimethoxyzarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 methylpenam 3a carboxylic acid 1,1 dioxide, 8 ml of dichloromethane and 8 ml of water. To the mixture was dropwise added at the same temperature 0.74 g of chloromethyl chlorosulfonate. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The organic layer was separated, washed once with water and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was removed by distil lation at reduced pressure to obtain as the residue 1.5 g of amorphous product in 83 Z yield.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr 1 v max cm 1805, 1735 Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 6 ppm 1.55 3H, s , 3.2 3.8 2H, m , 3.99 3H, s , 4.03 3H, s , 4.6 4.8 1H, m , 5.01 1H, s , 5.32 C2H, d , 5.62 lH, d , 5.81 lH, d Example 27Preparation of iodomethyl 2B 4,5 dimethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole l yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 29 A 1.05 g quantity of chloromethyl 2ss 4,5 dimethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methyl penam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide, 0.52 g of sodium iodide and 1.8 ml of acetone were stirred at room temperature for 18 hours.To the reaction mixture was added 1.5 ml of water and the resulting mixture was adjusted to a pH of 7 to 8 with an aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate. Thereto was added 1.5 ml of water and the mixture was decolorized with an aqueous solution of 0.5 M sodium thiosulfate. The mixture was extracted with dicloromethane, washed with water and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off at reduced pressure to produce 1.1 g of amorphous product in 78 Z yield.Infrared absorption spectrum EMBr V max cm1 1800, 1730Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 ppm 1.56 3H, s , 3.2 3.8 2H, m , 3.99 3H, s , 4.03 C3H, s , 4.6 4.8 1H, m , 4.97 41H, s , 5.30 2H, d , 5.85 1H, d , 5.96 1H, d Example 28Preparation of p nitrobenzyl 2B 4, 5 dimctthoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 30 A 3.5 g quantity of p nitrobenzyl 2ss azido methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate 1,1 dioxide and 4.8 g of dimethylacetylenedicarboxylate in 80 ml of absolute benzene were refluxed under nitrogen atmosphere for 18 hours. The solvent was distilled off at reduced pressure to provide 4.7 g of the contemplated compound.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm Ú 1805, 1735Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 ppm 1.43 3H, s , 3.2 3.4 2H, m , 3.96 3H, s , 3.99 3H, s , 4.64 4.76 1H, m , 4.98 C1H, s , 5.04 5.44 C4H, m , 7.56 2H, d , 8.23 2H, d Example 29Preparation of p nitrobenzyl 2B 4,5 diethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 31 The foregoing compound was prepared in the same manner as in Example 23 with the exception of using as the starting material p nitrobenzyl 2ss azidomethyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide. Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm Ú 1805, 1735Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 ppm 1.33 1.48 9H, m , 3.30 3.72 2H, m , 4.42 2H, q , 4.45 2H, q , 4.64 4.71 1H, m , 5.02 1H, s , 5.22 5.40 4H, m , 7.55 2H, d , 8.24 211, d Example 30Preparation of 2ss 4,5 diethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylic acid l,l dioxide Compound 32 and sodium salt thereof Compound 33 Hydrogenation was conducted at an initial pressure of 3 atm. by using 3.5 g of p nitrobenzyl 2ss 4,5 diethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3a carboxylate l,1 dioxide, t.lg of sodium hydrogencarbonate, 0.6 g of 10 Z palladium charcoal, 90 ml of ethyl acetate and 90 ml of water. In I hour, the reaction mixture was sedimented and the aqueous layer was separated. The aqueous solution was washed twice with ether and its pH was adjusted to 1.7 with diluted hydrochloric acid. The aqueous solution was extracted with ethyl acetate and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was removed by distillation at reduced pressure. Thus there was obtained 2.2 g of 23 4,5 diethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methyl penam 3a carboxylic acid l,l dioxide in 83 Z yield in amorphous form. A 170 mg quantity of 2B 4,5 diethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylic acid 1,1, dioxide was dissolved in a solution of 84 mg of sodium hydrogencarbonate in 10 ml of water. The solution was purified with an MCI gel, CHP 20P product ofMitsubishi Kasei Co., Ltd., Japan . The liquid thus obtained was freeze dried and there was prepared 130 mg of sodium 2ss 4,5 diethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3a carboxylate l , I dioxide in amorophous form having a melting point of 155 to 1600C decomposition in 73 yield.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1785, 1735, 1630Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D20 ppm 1.32 1.49 9H, m , 3.34 3.82 C2R, m , 4.35 4.65 5R, m , 5.01 5.07 1H, m , 5.47 2R, 8 Example 31Preparation of p nitrobenzyl 2ss 4,5 di n butoxy carbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2a methylpenam 3acarboxylate l ,l dioxide Compound 34 p nitrobenzyl 2ss 4,5 di isobutoxyearbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 35 p nitrobenzyl 2B 4,5 di n tetradecyloxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 36 p nitrobenzyl 2ss 4,5 di n octadecyloxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 37 p nitrobenzyl 2ss 4,5 di p nitrobenzyloxy carbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 38 . The foregoing compounds were prepared in the same manner as in Example 29. Compound 34Infrared absorption spectrum NaCl max cm Ú 1805, 1730Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 6 ppm 0.96 6H, t , 1.43 3H, s , 1.2 2.0 C8H, m , 3.3 3.7 2H, m , 4.2 4.5 4H, m , 4.6 4.7 1H, m , 5.02 1H, s , 5.0 5.4 4H, m , 7.54 2H, d , 8.24 2H, d Compound 35Infrared absorption spectrum NaCl max cm Ú 1805, 1735Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 ppm 0.98 6H, d , 1.00 6H, d , 1.43 3H, s , 1.8 2.3 2H, m , 3 3 3.7 2H, m , 4.15 4H, d , 4.6 4.7 1H, m , 5.02 lH, s , 5.0 5.4 4H, m , 7.55 2H, d , 8.24 2H, d Compound 36Infrared absorption spectrum KBr max cm Ú 1800, 1730Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCl3 ppm 0.70 1.90 57H m , 3.44 3.60 C2H,m , 4.22 4.45 C4H, m , 4.58 4.70 1H, m , 5.03 1H, s , 4.95 5.40 C4H, m , 7.54 C2H, d , 8.24 2H, d Compound 37Infrared absorption spectrum. KBr v max cm1 1800, 1730Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 6 ppm 0.70 1.90 73H,m , 3.44 3.60 2H,m , 4.22 4.45 4H, m , 4.54 4.68 1H, m , 5.03 1H, s , 4.80 5.40 4H, m , 7.53 2H, d , 8.24 2H, d Compound 38Infrared absorption spectrum K3r max cm Ú 1800, 1735Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 ppm 1.46 3H, s , 3.42 3.56 2H, m , 4.58 4.70 1H, m , 4.88 1H, s , 5.31 4H, s , 5.46 C4H, s , 7.42 7.66 6H, m , 8.05 8.30 6H, m Example 32Preparation of tri sodium 2ss 4,5 dicarboxy 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate l,l dioxide Compound 39 The above compound with a melting point of over 203 C decomposition was produced in the same manner as in Example 4 from Compound 38.Infrared absorption spectrum KBr v max cm1 1780, 1720Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D2O 6 ppm 1.42 C3H, s , 3.25 3.82 2E, m , 4.50 1H, s , 4.95 5.04 1H, m 5.52 C2R, dd The compounds obtained in some of the examples were checked for ss lactamase inhibitory activity and antibacterial activity. 1 Test for ss lactamase inhibitory activity The inhibitory activity against penicillinase ss lactamase from Bacillus SP was measured by microiodometry ETanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso Protein NucleicAcid Enzyme , vol. 23, No.5, pp 391 400 1978 using a penicillin G as a substrate. Table 1 given below shows the results. Table 1 Compound 50 Z Inhibitory Concentration Compound 7 5.4 x 10 8 M 11 3.4 x 10 7 M 12 4.9 x 10 8 M 13 3.0 X 10 7 M 16 6.0 X 10 7 M 17 1.7 X 10 6 M 22 6.9 X 10 7 M 24 5.1 X 10 7 M 39 2.3 X 10 6 M Further, the sodium 2ss 4,5 dimethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 26 obtained in Example 24 was tested for ss lactamase inhibitory activity against penicillinase B lactamase from Bacillus SP by pHState method Journal Pharmaceutical Science published in 1972, vol. 61, No.10, pp 1954 to 1958 using as a substrate a penicillin G, and was found to have 50 Z 2 lactamase inhibitory concentration of 3 x 10 7M, 2 Test for antibacterial activity 1 Effects by ampicillin as combined with the present compound The compounds of the present invention and ampicillin, each singly used, were checked for minimal inhibitory concentration MIC against the bacteria listed in Table 2 given below by micro broth dilution method American Journal Clinical Pathology published in 1980, vol. 73, No.3, pp 374 to 379 . The MIC of ampicillin as combined with the present compound 10 Il g ml was measured against the same bacteria.In the method, the bacteria cultivated in Mueller HintonBroth product of DIFCO and diluted to 107 CFU ml were inoculated into the same medium containing ampicillin and the present compound in a specific concentration, and incubated at 37 C for 20 hours. Thereafter the growth of the microorganisms was observed to determine the minimal inhibitory concentration MIC for rendering the inoculated medium free from turbidity. The present compounds, singly used, turned out to be all more than 25 llg ml in MIC. The bacteria as used in the test were those capable of producing ss lactamase, among which the bacteria marked in the table are those collected from the living body of human hosts and the others are a stock culture. In Table 2, the present compounds are shown by the compound number. Table 2 MIC g ml Test Ampicillin Present Compound combined with ampicillin Bacteria singly used 7 11 12 13 16 17 22 24S. aureus 25 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.78 0.2 0.78 S 54S. aureus 25 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.78 0.1 0.39 ATCC 90124E. coli 400 6.25 25 3.13 6.25 6.25 0.05 3.13 100 TH 13 E. coli 400 6.25 12.5 3.13 6.25 3.13 6.25 6.25 50 TH 397 P. mirabilis 400 1.56 0.78 0.78 0.78 0.78 0.39 0.78 25 121P. vulgaris 100 0.78 0.78 0.39 0.39 1.56 1.56 0.78 1.56 IID OX 19S. marcescens 400 12.5 25 12.5 25 6.25 1.56 3.13 100 TH 05 The same test as above was carried out to determine the antibacterial activity of the sodium 2ss 4,5 dimethoxycarbonyl 1,2,3 triazole 1 yl methyl 2 alpha methylpenam 3 alpha carboxylate 1,1 dioxide Compound 26 obtained in Example 24. Table 3 given below shows the results. Table 3 MIC g ml Test Amount of Ampicillin Comp.26 Ampicillin bacteria inoculate as combined CFU ml with Comp. 26S.aureus 10 100 50 0.39 S 54S. aureus 107 50 50 ATCC 90124E. coli 107 400 50 TH 13 E. coli 10 800 50 50 TH 34 P. mirabilis 107 800 50 1.56 121 1 P.vulgaris 10 25 25 0.2 lID OX 19 S. marcescens 107 800 50 50 TH 05 2 Effects by antibiotics as combined with the present compound The compounds of the present invention, ampicillin, mecillinam, piperacillin and cephalexin, each singly used, were also tested for minimal inhibitory concentration against 30 strains of coliform bacilli collected from the living body of humans.The MIC of each antibiotic as combined with the present compound 10 ug ml was likewise measured. Table 4 to 7 indicate the results in which MIC50 and MIC70 indicate the minimal inhibitory concentration for inhibiting the growth of 50 Z and 70 x respectively of the strains. The MICs of the present compounds singly used were all more than 25 g ml. Table 4 30 Strains of Ampicillin Present compound as combined with ampicillin coriform bacilli singly used Comp. 7 Comp. 11 Comp. 16 Comp. 17 Comp. 22MIC50 g ml 400 6.25 50 6.25 25 3.13MIC70 g ml 400 50 100 6.25 100 6.25 Table 5 30 Strains of Mecillinam Present compound as combined with mecillinam coriform bacilli singly used Comp. 7 Comp. 11 Comp. 16 Comp. 17 Comp. 22MIC50 g ml 3.13 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.05 0.1MIC70 g ml 12.5 0.39 0.39 0.1 0.39 0.2 Table 6 30 Strains of Piperacillin Present compound as combined with piperacillin coriform bacilli singly used Comp. 7 Comp. 11 Comp. 16 Comp. 17 Comp. 22MIC50 g ml 50 1.56 6.25 1.56 6.25 1.56MIC70 g ml 200 6.25 25 3.13 50 1.56 Table 7 30 Strains of Cephelexin Present compound as combined with cephalexin coriform bacilli singly used Comp. 7 Comp. 11 Comp. 16 Comp. 17 Comp. 22MIC50 g ml 25 12.5 12.5 6.25 3.13 12.5MIC70 g ml 100 100 100 25 12.5 50 Given below are examples of preparation of the present antibacterial compositions. Preparation Example 1, Ampicillin 200 mg Compound 22 200 mg Lactose 100 mg Crystalline cellulose 57 mg Magnesium stearate 3 mg Total 560 mg amount per capsule The above ingredients are formulated in the proportions listed above into a capsule. Preparation Example 2 Amoxycillin 100 mg Compound 16 70 mg Lactose 330 mg Corn starch 490 mg Hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose 10 mz Total 1000 mg amount per dose The above ingredients are. formulated in the proportions listed above into granules. Preparation Example 3 Pivmecillinam 70 mg Compound 17 70 mg Lactose 33 mg Crystalline cellulose 15 mg Magnesium stearate 3 mg Talc 4 mg Corn starch 15 mg Hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose 10 mg Total 220 mg amount per tablet The above ingredients are formulated in the proportions listed above into a tablet. Preparation Example 4 Compound 22 120 mg Hydroxypropyl cellulose 3 mg Corn starch 25 mg Magnesium stearate 2 mg Total 150 mg amount per tablet The above ingredients are formulated in the proportions listed above into a tablet.