# Method of securing sleeve bearing lubrication of a multiple speed rotational device, control arrangement for carrying out said method, and use of said method and control arrangement in regulating a fan.

## Abstract
Apparatus and a method are disclosed for prolonging life of a multiple speed rotational device and regulating its speed. A rotating shaft is supported by a sleeve bearing and power is supplied to the rotating shaft. The shaft is operated at a minimum speed which allows establishing of a lubricant film between the shaft and the bearing upon startup prior to being operated at a reduced rotational speed. Once the lubricant film is established, this film is maintained during reduced speed operation and bearing life is prolonged. A tapped transformer is used with a standard fan motor for providing selected motor speeds. A high winding temper ature region is identified such that the motor is not operated with a power supply having a voltage output which results in high motor winding temperatures. Specific relay circuit means are provided for operating the motor at various voltage levels.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of prolonging sleeve bearing life in a machine having a plurality of operating speeds and at least one lubricated sleeve bearing securing a rotating shaft which comprises the steps of selecting the appropriate rotational operating speed for the machine energizing the machine to operate at the appropriate rotational speed overriding the steps of selecting and energizing to operate the machine at a rotational velocity sufficient to establish a lubricant film between the sleeve bearing and the rotating shaft and discontinuing the step of overriding after the elapse of a time period sufficient to establish the lubricant film. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of discontinuing occurs approximately between 2 and 4 seconds after the step of overriding has energized the machine at a sufficient rotational velocity to establish the lubricant film. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of overriding is bypassed if the step of selecting acts to cause the machine to be operated at a rotational velocity either sufficient to or greater than the rotational velocity necessary to establish the lubricant film. 4. A control arrangement for an electric motor having a lubricated bearing supporting the rotor shaft, said motor having a plurality of operating speeds, which comprises motor speed control means electrically connected to the motor sensor means for generating a response indicative of the motor speed desired circuit means connected to the sensor means and the motor speed control means for energizing the motor at the speed indicated by the sensor means and startup speed control means for energizing the motor at a predetermined minimum rotational speed for a time interval to establish a lubricant film within the bearing prior to operating the motor at a reduced rotational speed. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein the motor speed control means includes a tapped transformer connected through relay means to supply power at various voltage levels to the electric motor for operating the motor at selected speeds. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein the sensor means comprises a thermistor connected to vary in resistance in response to a measured temperature and wherein the circuit means comprises integrated circuits connected to detect voltage drops outside a predetermined range and to appropriately deenergize relays in response thereto. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein the startup speed control comprises an integrated circuit connected to enable a circuit to operate the motor at a preselected minimum rotational velocity. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein the startup speed control means further comprises a resistance capacitance timing circuit for supplying a signal to the integrated circuit for a predetermined startup time interval. 9. Apparatus for regulating the volume of air circulated by a fan which comprises an electrical power source supplying current at a relatively constant voltage an electrical motor mechanically coupled to rotate the fan, said motor including motor windings, said motor having at least one operating voltage region which results in high winding temperatures and said motor operating at varying rotational velocities depending upon the voltage level of the power supplied to the motor a transformer connected to the power source ha ving a plurality of voltage taps, each tap being selected to provide a voltage output other than a voltage level within the region which results in high motor winding temperatures and circuit means connecting the taps of the transformer to the motor, said circuit means including relay means for supplying power to the motor at selected voltage levels by connecting a selected transformer tap to the motor whereby variable air volumes are circulated by the fan by operating the motor at selected voltage drops to avoid voltage drops which occasion high motor winding temperatures. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9 wherein the transformer voltage taps are arranged such that one voltage tap is connected to deliver power at a voltage less than the voltage region wherein high winding temperatures occur and one voltage tap is connected to deliver power at a voltage higher than the voltage region where high winding temperatures occur. 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9 whereinthe circuit means further comprises relay means for selectively supplying power at the voltage of the power source to the motor. 12. A method of regulating the volume of air circulated by a fan by operating a fan motor connected to power the fan at varying speeds by supplying power to the motor at selected voltage levels while prolonging life of the motor, said method comprising the steps of determining a high temperature voltage region in which the motor windings may reach an averbeated temperature if the motor is operated with the applied voltage of the power supplied being within the high voltage region and energizing the motor by supplying power to the motor at voltage levels outside the high temperature region such that the motor may be operated at varying rotational velocities without the windings overheating. 13. The method as set forth in claim 12 wherein the step of energizing includes utilizing a transformer with multiple voltage taps for supplying power to the motor at varying voltage levels, said transformer having at least one voltage tap located to supply power at a voltage level below the minimum voltage level of the high temperature voltage region and at least one voltage tap located to supply power at a voltage level exceeding the maximum voltage level of the high temperature voltage region. 14. The method as set forth in claim 13 wherein the step of energizing further comprises selectively connecting the motor to a power source at the voltage level of said power source.

## Description
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROLONGING LIFE OF AMULTIPLE SPEED ROTATIONAL DEVICE AND FOR REGULATINGITS SPEED, I.E. TO MAINTAIN HEAD PRESSURE IN A REFRIGERATION SYSTEM The present invention relates multiple speed rotational devices and the regulation of their rotational speed. More specifically, the present invention relates to a rotating device capable of being operated at multiple speeds and including means for assuring a lubricant film between the sleeve bearing and the shaft for prolonging sleeve bearing life. Further, more specifically, the present invention relates to a fan motor speed control utilizing an autotransformer to supply power to the motor at the varying voltages. The motor operates at different speeds based upon the voltage of the power supplied to the motor, without running a risk of overheating. In an air conditioning system it is desirable to have the capability of operating the air conditioning system to cool an enclosure notwithstanding the outdoor ambient temperature is relatively low. In a typical refrigeration circuit the condensing temperature and pressure and consequently the evaporator tem peratureare a function of the ambient air temperature.In order to allow air conditioning systems to operate effectively in low outdoor conditions it is necessary that the condensing temperature, the temperature at which refrigerant changes state from a gas to a liquid within the condenser, be maintained at a minimum temperature level. On hot days condenser fans are utilized to circulate ambient air in heat exchange relation with refrigerant in the condenser to effect a transfer of heat energy from the refrigerant to the air such that the refrigerant changes state from a gas to a liquid.When the ambient air temperature is reduced, a smaller volume of air or none at all needs to be forcibly circulated over the condenser surface to provide for ap propriate heat transfer. If the condenser fans are operated at full speed and the ambient temperature is sufficiently low then the refrigerant is condensed at a lower temperature and thereafter subcooled to an even lower temperature such that freezeup may occur on the evaporator heat transfer surfaces. Overall system capacity may also be reduced since the condensing pressure is reduced and as a result thereof the mass flow rate of refrigerant through the system is also reduced. To maintain the air conditioning system at full capacity with low outdoor ambient temperature conditions it is desirable to vary the speed of the condensing fan motors to vary the air flow in heat transfer relationship with the condenser. The fan speeds are varied to maintain the condensing temperature at a desired level. Typically, a refrigerant temperature is sensed someplace in the closed refrigeration circuit to determine at what flow rate to circulate air, if any, over the condensing surface. Speed control devices have been utilized to vary the speed of the electric motor connected to drive a propeller type fan for circulating the ambient air over the condenser. It has been found that an economical and efficient system for accomplishing such a fan speed variance is to utilize a tapped transformer for supplying power at various voltages to the motor.This tapped transformer allows the use of a standard motor to achieve the various operating speeds. Another system for utilizing a conventional economical fan motor is to utilize a motor having a sleeve bearing as opposed to a more expensive ball bearing.The sleeve bearing motor has a rotating shaft which is secured within a cylindrical sleeve. Lubricant is supplied to the space between the sleeve and the shaft for supporting the shaft on a lubricant film between the bearing and shaft. It has been found that if the fan motor is operated at a sufficiently slow speed that the lubricant film is not established between the shaft and the bearing. If no lubricant film is established the bearing life is greatly reduced. It has further been found that if, upon startup, the shaft is operated at a minimum rotational velocity to establish a lubricant film then subsequent slower speed operation does not destroy the lubricant film. Hence, operation of the fan motor at the reduced speed after the film has been established maintains the film and acts to prolong the bearing life. As described herein, there will be disclosed a control system which, upon startup, acts to energize the fan motor at a minimum speed which may vary from 500 to 800 revolutions per minute for a predetermined time interval to establish a lubricant film. Thereafter, depending upon the need for ambient air to be circulated over the condenser, the fan speed may be lowered while the lubricant film is maintained. In a conventional vapor compression refrigeration circuit employing an air cooled condenser, the condenser is normally located in the ambient and is subject to the changes in atmospheric weather conditions.When outdoor temperatures are relatively high, as for example during the summer, the temperature and pressure of the refrigerant flowing from the condenser to the system expansion device is relatively high. However, when the outdoor temperature is relatively low, for example during the winter, the temperature and correspondingly the pressure of the refrigerant flowing from the condenser to the system expansion device is reduced.Reduction in pressure of the refrigerant between the condenser and expansion device reduces the amount of refrigerant fed to the system evaporator by the expansion means with a corresponding reduction in system capacity. By reducing the amount of refrigerant flowing to the evaporator low evaporator temperatures may re sult further exacerbating system capacity reduction by creating ice formation on the evaporator which impedes heat transfer between refrigerant flowing through the evaporator and air flowing thereover. In order to effectively regulate the condensing temperature and pressure the volume of air being circulated over the condenser to effect heat transfer between the refrigerant and the air may be varied. As the outdoor temperature drops the flow of air necessary to absorb a given amount of heat energy also drops.Hence, by matching the flow of air over the condenser with the temperature of said air the temperature and pressure of the condenser may be maintained. It has been found in condenser fan operatiOns wherein a motor is utilized to drive a propeller fan for circulating air over the condenser that numerous methods of speed control are available. One economical method for regulating fan speed is to utilize a tapped transformer with a standard fan motor. The utilization of a tapped transformer provides a power source having various voltage levels and the utilization of a standard fan motor allows for the fan motor to be operated at various speeds depending upon the voltage of the power source. By utilizing the standard fan motor the cost of the motor is reduced as compared to a dual wound fan motor or other speed control devices such as wave chopping apparatus, inverters or multiple winding motors. One of the problems identified with utilizing tapped transformers to supply power of different voltages to the fan motor is that a standard fan motor, when operated at certain selected voltages, tends to create an overheating situation. A specific region known as a high temperature voltage region has been identified such that should a fan motor be operated having an applied voltage within that region, overheating of the motor windingsmay occur. This overheating results in reduction of fan motor life, early failure and additional maintenance problems. A main object of the present invention is to provide a control system for a fan motor which prolonges life of the motor, and is safe, economical and reliable. A sub object of the present invention is to provide apparatus and a method for establishing a lubricant film in a sleeve bearing rotating shaft device, i.e. a fan motor when the shaft is to be rotated at a reduced speed. A further sub object of the present invention is to provide for a fan speed control utilizing a standard fan motor and a tapped transformer to operate the fan motor at selected speeds by varying the voltage of the power supplied thereto while avoiding regions of excess motor winding temperatures. This object is achieved according to one aspect of the invention by the provision of a control arrangement for an electric motor having a lubricated sleeve bearing supporting the motor shaft. Said motor has a plurality of operating speeds and includes motor speed control means electrically connected to the motor and a sensor means for generating a response indicative of the motor speed desired. Circuit means are provided and connected to both the sensor means and the motor speed control means for energizing the motor at the speed indicated by the sensor means. A startup speed control means for energizing the motor at a predetermined minimum rotational speed for a selected time interval to establish a lubricant film within the bearing prior to operating the motor at reduced rotational speed is also included. A tapped transformer having a series of relays for connecting the motor to the appropriate tap of the transformer is provided. A control circuit, based upon the resistance generated via the thermistor, is utilized to energize the appropriate relays for selecting the appropriate fan speed. A resistance capacitance timing circuit is connected via an integrated circuit to energize the motor driving the fan at an appropriate speed to establish a lubricant film upon startup. This object is achieved according to another aspect of the invention by the provision of apparatus for regulating the volume of air circulated by a fan including an electrical power source for supplying current at a relatively constant voltage, an electric motor mechanically coupled to rotate the fan, said motor including motor windings and said motor having at least one operating voltage region which results in high winding temperatures and said motor operating at varying rotational velocities depending upon the voltage level of the power supplied to the motor A transformer is connected to the power source and has a plurality of voltage taps and each tap being selected to provide a voltage output other than an output voltage within a region which results in high motor winding temperatures.Circuit means are provided to connect the taps of the transformer to the motor, said circuit means including relay means for supplying power to the motor at selected voltage levels by connecting selected transformer taps to the motor whereby variable air volumes are circulated by the fan by operating the fan motor at selected speeds by providing a power source having various voltage levels selected to avoid voltage levels which occasion high motor winding temperatures. The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein Figure 1 is a sectional view of a sleeve bearing type fan motor and fan Figure 2 is a wiring schematic of a control system for controlling operation of the fan motor and Figure 3 is a graph of motor speed and motor winding temperature versus the voltage of the power source to the motor. The preferred embodiment as described herein will refer to a condensing fan motor for use with a refrigeration circuit, circulating ambient air over a condensor of said refrigeration circuit. It is to be understood that the control arrangement and the method of operation wherein a lubricant film is established prior to operating at reduced speed or wherein ambient air is circulated over a condenser of the refrigeration circuit may be utilized in other applications and with devices other than electric motors, or other applications, respectively. The purpose of such a fan control in a refrigeration circuit is to allow the refrigeration system to operate at low outdoor ambient temperatures by maintaining a relatively constant head pressure in the condenser. Other motor speed control purposes could be equally satisfied by the described embodiment. Referring now to Figure 1 there can be seen a schematic of a vertically mounted fan motor 10. This motor includes a rotor 16, stator 18 and casing 12.Fan 20 has hub 24 and fan blades 22 mounted to shaft 30 of the motor. Rain shield 14 is provided for protecting the motor from vertically falling rain. Stepped shaft 31, preload spring 40r grease reservoir 44 and sleeve bearing 42 are all shown mounted at the upper part of the motor. At the lower part of the motor shown in a partially cutaway section may be seen grease reservoir 46, sleeve bearing 40, the end bell of the motor 49 and lower bearing water slinger 48. It can be seen therein that bearing 40 has shaft 30 of the motor extending therethrough. Lubricant is maintained in the reservoir 46. It is this lubricant that flows in the space between the shaft and the bearing to establish the lubricant film. This bearing may have opening through it such that the lubricant may flow through the openings into the space between the rotating shaft and the bearing.The bearing may also have a diagonal groove or similar indentation for promoting oil flow within the bearing. Additionally, the reservoir may be filled with a wick type material or other material for securing the lubricant therein. Figure 2 discloses a wiring schematic for a control system for operating a motor at various speeds.It can be seen that power is supplied through linesL l and L 2. Wire 103 is connected to L 2 and fan motor 10 as well as transformer 50. Line L l is connected by wire 101 to normally closed relay contacts K3 l and to transformer 50. Wire 104 connects normally closed relay contacts K3 1 with normally open relay contacts K3 2 and fan motor 10. Fan motor 10 is physically connected to fan 20. Wire 107 connects normally open relay contacts K3 2 with normally open relay contacts K2 2 and normally closed relay contacts K2 l. Wire 109 connects normally closed relay contacts K2 l with a tap connection to transformer 50. Wire 111 connects normally open relay contacts K2 2 and normally closed relay contacts K1 l. Wire 112 connects normally closed relay contacts Kl l with a tap connection to transformer 50. The low voltage side of the transformer 50 is connected to the control circuit portion of the wiring schematic shown in Figure 2 as opposed to the power portion already described. Wire 121 is connected from transformer 50 to diodes D 3 and D 2. Wire 123 is connected from transformer 50 to diodes D l and D 4.Wire 125 connects diodes D l and D 2, resistor R 8, thermistor RT, capacitor C l and switching transistors Q 1, Q 2 and Q 3. Wire 127 connects diodes D 4 and D 3 to wire 129. The four diodes, D l trough D 4, compose a diode bridge for supplying direct current to the remainder of the control circuit. Resistor R 2 is connected to resistor R 3 which is connected to resistor R 4 and so on in series through resistor R 8. Resistor R 2 is also connected via wire 131 to resistor R 13 and via wire 129 to resistor R 9, resistor R 15, to diode D 5 and to relays K l, K 2 and K 3. Resistor R 2 is connected via wire 141 to resistor R 3 and to terminal seven of integrated circuit A l. Resistor R 3 is connected via wire 143 to resistor R 4 and to terminal one of integrated circuitA l. Resistor R 4 is connected via wire 145 to resistor R 5 and to terminal seven of integrated circuitA 2. Resistor R 5 is connected via wire 147 to resistor R 6 and to terminal one of integrated circuit A 2.Resistor R 6 is connected via wire 149 to resistor R 7 and to terminal seven of integrated circuit A 3. Resistor R 7 is connected to resistor R 8 via wire 151 and to terminal one of integrated circuit A 3. Resistor R 9 is connected via wire 150 to resistor R 10, R ll and R 12 which are connected respectively by wires 153, 155 and 157 to terminal eight of integrated circuits A 1, A 2 and A 3 respectively.Wire 150 also connects resistor R 9 to thermistor RT.Resistor R 15 is connected to wire 129 and connected by wire 159 to terminal eight of integrated circuitA 4 and to capacitor C l. Resistor R 13 is connected to resistor R 14 and to terminal seven of integrated circuit A 4 via wire 133. Wire 135 connects resistorR 14 to wire 125 and to terminal one of integrated circuit A 4. Integrated circuit A l is connected via wire 161 to the base of switching transistor Q l. Integrated circuit A 2 and A 4 are connected via wire 163 to the base of switching transistor Q 2. Integrated circuitA 3 is connected via wire 165 to the base of switching transistor Q 3. Wire 167 connects switching transistor Q 3 with relay K 3 wire 169 connects switching transistor Q 2 with relay K 2 and wire 171 connects switching transistor Q l with relay K l. Appropriate Pullup resistors and circuit protec tive devices need be provided with the integrated circuits. These elements have been omitted from the drawing for clarity purposes. Referring now to Figure 3 there can be seen the graph of the voltage drop of the power source versus the temperature rise of a motor winding and the revolutions per minute of the motor. It can be seen at the low voltage levels there is little winding temperature rise and reduced speed. As the voltage level is increased the temperature rises dramatically until it reaches a high temperature region, somewhere in the neighborhood of 108 volts to 143 volts. Thereafter, the temperature rise decreases to the designed operating voltage of the motor of 230 volts. In the same graph, it can be seen that the speed of the motor increases in a nonlinear fashion, generally as the voltage increases It can also be seen in the diagram that the three operating positions are indicated.The motor tested was designed to operate at 230 volts and at such voltage level has a relatively low winding temperature rise of approximately 37.5 Kandan operating speed of 1080 revolutions per minute. A reduced voltage level of 170.2 volts is chosen to have a motor winding temperature rise of approximately 6i.5 K and a rotational speed of approximately 920 revolutions per minute.Motors having designs voltages other than 230 volts have been found to operate in a similar manner. At the third selected voltage of roughly 100 volts it can be seen that the temperature rise is approximately 864t and the rotational speed roughly 375 RPM. Hence, it can be seen that by the three speeds selected the high winding temperature region, in this case chosen to be above 899K temperature rise, is avoided and the motor is operated only at speeds resulting in lesser motor winding temperature increases.Hence, the high temperature region is avoided and the life of the fan motor is prolonged. Thermistor RT is mounted in heat transfer relation to a portion of the refrigeration circuit and is responsive to the temperature thereof. Based upon that temperature, a selected resistance is generated by the thermistor. Based upon the combination of this resis tance and the other resistances of resistors R 2 throughR 12, appropriate voltage levels are established. Resistors R 2 through R 8 and R 13 and R 14 establish reference level voltages for integrated circuits A l through A 4. Resistor R 9, and the resistance of the thermistor act to generate appropriate voltage drops depending upon the level of resistance generated by the thermistor.Integrated circuits A l through A 4 are allRCA circuits 3098 acting as programmable Schmidt triggers which have an output which goes high when the voltage level at pin 8 excess the voltage level at pin 7 and which output goes low when the voltage level at pin 8 falls below the voltage level at pin 1. Hence, if the resistance of the thermistor is such that a voltage level is detected outside the range of the voltage levels between terminals one and seven integrated circuit A 2, integrated circuit A 2 acts to sink power together with circuit components not shown through wire 163 to switching transistor Q 2 to deenergize relay K 2. Relays K l, K 2 and K 3 are normally open and the relay contacts as shown are those shown with the relays not energized. Upon the application of power to the circuit all the relays are initially energized switching from the positions shown. Hence, depending upon the voltage sensed at the various terminal eights of integrated circuits A l,A 2 and A 3, the appropriate switching transistors are de energized. Hence, upon startup of the unit, if the voltage drop is such that, it does fall within the hysteresis range of any of the three integrated circuits all three relays are energized and are in the opposits positions than the position shown in Figure 2 such that fan motor 10 receives no power.Should the voltage change such that the voltage at terminal 8 of integrated circuit A 3 is outside the hysteresis range of that integrated circuit then wire 165 is energized and switching transistor Q 3 is de energized thereby de energizing relay K 3. In this condition, the K3 1 contacts are closed and K3 2 contacts are opened such that power is supplied from wire 101, through now closed relay contacts K3 1 and through wire 104 to fan motor 10. In this condition, the fan motor is operated at full speed based upon the voltage between lines L l and L 2. Should the voltage level change and be detected outside the hysteresis range of integrated circuitA 2 then the 4 2 switching transistor is de energized, de energizing relay K 2, switching the K 2 relay contacts. The X2 1 contacts are now closed and the K2 2 contacts are now open. Hence, the circuit is connected via wire 109 from transformer 50 through now closed relay contacts K2 1, through wire 107 through now closed relay contacts K3 2 through wire 104 to operate the fan motor. In this condition, the fan motor is operated with power having a voltage level of the tap of transformer 50 connected to wire 109. Should terminal eight of integrated circuit A l detect a voltage outside the hysteresis range of that integrated circuit then the K l relay will likewise be de energized and the K l l contacts closed. Power is then supplied to the fan motor through wire 112, through the normally closed Kl l contacts, wire 111, now closed K2 2 contacts, wire 107, now closed K3 2 contacts and wire 104 to operate the motor at a speed represented by the voltage level of the power source as connected via wire 112 to a tap of transformer 50. In order to establish initial a minimum speed of the fan motor to establish the lubricant oil film, a startup arrangement is provided. Integrated circuitA 4 is connected such that a voltage drop outside the hysteresis range between terminals one and seven is detected upon startup. A resistance capacitance timing circuit, including resistor R 12 and capacitor C 1, acts to generate a voltage drop outside the hysteresis range of approximately three seconds upon startup. For this three second interval, switching transformer Q 2 is de energized and the K2 1 contacts are closed thereby operating the fan motor at the mid dle speed since the K3 2 contacts are now closed. If the Q 3 transistor is otherwise energized the fan motor will operate at full speed. Hence, it may be seen that a control circuit is provided for maintaining the fan motor at a selected minimum speed for a time interval to establish a lubricant film. Thereafter, the system is operated at a fan speed as determined by the conditions of the refrigeration circuit. Referrring now to Figures 2 and 3 it can be seen that fan motor 10 is operated at 100 volts, 170 volts or 230 volts. From the power side of the wiring diagram in Figure 1 it can be seen that, as shown, the fan motor will be operated at the line voltage drop 230 volts when the K3 1 relay contacts connect the fan motor directly between lines L l and L 2. Should a different condition be required, the appropriate relays will be energized to supply power either from the voltage tap connected to wire 110 or the voltage tap connected to wire 109. In either case, the power will be supplied to the fan motor at the appropriate voltage level.