# CELL CULTURE MICROCARRIERS

## Abstract
Cell culture microcarriers made of water insolubilized protein. The protein is substantially homogeneously distri buted throughout the microcarrier. The cell culture microcar rier is made by forming droplets of an aqueous solution of a protein, suspending the droplets in a fluid, solidifying the suspended droplets into cell culture microcarriers and recovering the cell culture microcarriers. Preferably, prior to recovery, the cell culture microcarriers are hardened with a crosslinking agent, preferably glutaraldehyde and neutral ized with a dilute solution of the protein. An apparatus for converting a water based protein solution to microspheres. The apparatus has a heated, thermostatically controlled reservoir for the protein solution. The protein solution is supplied to a spray head. The protein solution is maintained at approximately at least the same temperature at the spray head as in the reservoir and a predetermined pressure is maintained on the protein solution at the spray head. A receptacle receives the droplets emitted by the spray head. The droplets are suspended and solidified into microspheres by flowing a low temperature, water immiscible suspension liquid across the receptacle and microspheres are collected. The cell culture microcarriers have been used to grow and harvest anchorage dependent cells and anchorage depen dent cell products, such as interferon. The cell culture microcarriers produce outstanding cell growth and possess superior subcultivation ability.