# ELECTRICAL CONTROL SYSTEMS

## Claims
Elektrisches Regelsystem mit einer Kraftmaschine 16,17 , die einen elektrischen Generator 10 antreibt, einem Regler 15 für die Kraftmaschine 16,17 , sowie einer Verbrauchslast B und einer Hilfslast 14 , die von dem elektrischen Generator 10 gespeist werden, und einem Regelsystem 11 , das Signale aufnimmt, die wenigstens einem elektrischen Betriebsparameter des Generators 10 entsprechen,

## Description
This invention relates to an electrical control system, in particular a system for controlling a generating set and to a method of operating an electrical supply system. A generating set includes a prime mover and an electrical generator, and may supply a load within its own system or may supply a grid. The prime mover might be a water driven turbine, or a diesel engine, for example. The output power to the load from the generating set is not readily controlled by mechanical means, and not rapidly. Electrical control tends to involve dissipation of energy in a non useful way. Proposals have been made to provide control of a generator by keeping the load constant. In British Patent Specification 2006998A, for example, a ballast load is shunted across the actual load, and is controlled in dependence upon the generator output voltage or frequency. Nevertheless, such systems are incomplete, in that although the load supplied may be kept substantially constant, nothing is done to alter the running of the prime mover, so that the generator output is matched to the new actual load. An auxiliary load is also used in specification CH A 286240. In this, a prime mover drives an electrical generator connected to a consumer load and an auxiliary load in this case a water resistor . A control system, responsive to the speed of the prime mover, controls the control gate of the latter as well as the moving part of the auxiliary load. A dashpot in conjunction with springs ensures that the power consumed by the auxiliary load always tends back automatically to a pre determined mean value following a change induced by the control system. Variation of running of the prime mover necessarily entails a temporary change in the power in the auxiliary load there is no possibility of varying the prime mover without affecting the auxiliary load. Moreover, in normal running i.e. other than at startup and closedown, the system is set to waste power in the auxiliary load. Accordingly, the invention proposes an electrical system comprising a prime mover driving an electrical generator a control for the prime mover a consumer load and an auxiliary load fed by the electrical generator and a control system receiving signals corresponding to at least one electrical operating parameter of the generator characterised in that said control system is arranged to vary the proportions of the power output of the generator received by the consumer load and the auxiliary load respectively, in response to either at least one of said operating parameters or to at least one external signal independent of said at least one electrical operating parameter said control system is arranged to vary the power output of the prime mover independently of the variation of the power apportionment between the loads in response to said at least one external signal independent of said one parameter and in that the control system effects control of both the loads and the control for the prime mover so that in the normal operating state of the system the auxiliary load receives no or at the most a very small amount of power. Additionally, the invention proposes a method of operating an electrical supply system including a prime mover driving an electrical generator connected to a consumer load and an auxiliary load, comprising the steps of continuously sensing one or more electrical operating parameters of the generator and controlling the operation thereof, characterised in that The total load control may additionally be achieved by means of a device in series with the load. The control of the prime mover may be, for example, control of the gates of a hydraulic turbine, or of the throttle of a diesel engine. The systems according to the invention have many advantages and uses. A first allows any generating system to accommodate a step change of a consumer load from 100 to 0 by virtually instantaneous diversion of excess power into an auxiliary resistance bank whilst at the same time, or later, more slowly reducing the prime mover output so as to balance the new consumer demand. A particular use is for hydro electric generating plant of the reaction turbine type where with conventional mechanical governors reduction of the water flow through the machine can take some seconds and the machine will accelerate to an overspeed of typically about 30 whilst the control gates are being closed to the new position. At the same tame care must be exercised to prevent an excessive pressure rise from occurring in the supply penstock due to the hydraulic shock effect of sudden closure. Using the new system, the speed rise upon 100 load shedding can be maintained typically within 1 , whilst allowing the water flow to be reduced as slowly as necessary in consideration of the hydraulic conditions in the penstock. Conversely, it is possible to accommodate a step increase in consumer load from 0 100 given that a prior load demand signal is available. Using this signal, the prime mover power output can be increased to maximum and the excess power generated temporarily dissipated into the auxiliary load. Once generating at full power, then the new consumer load may be switched on, and the control system can immediately transfer power into that load from the auxiliary load. This is also advantageous in hydro electric reaction type machines, due to the time taken to open the gates and increase water flow into the unit. Without this system, large flywheels are commonly required to minimise the speed drop which otherwise occurs. The invention also finds use on diesel driven generating plant where a turbocharged engine is used. These generally cannot accept step load increases greater than about 60 of their rated power due to the time necessary to accelerate the blower to full speed. Use of the invention enables the power to be increased before the new load is switched on. If a prior load demand signal is not available, then a series load control unit may in certain cases be used in the system to soften the suddenness of the effect of switching the new load onto the prime mover. Use of the invention is recommended for many electrical consumers who require voltage and frequency kept within narrow limits for correct functioning e.g. computer power supplies, lighting circuits, etc. With conventional governing methods, these consumers cannot be connected onto supply systems subject to heavy switching transients, as the generating sets would not be able to maintain speed and voltage accurately enough to keep within the required tolerances. A system according to the invention, including either a prior load demand signal or series load control unit would be able to meet this requirement. The invention further finds application when the power to the consumer is to be controlled so that the supply system is not overloaded either when switching on loads or when generating at less than normal capacity. A particular application is on hydro electric or steam turbine driven syncronous generating sets supplying resistive loads such as storage or immersion heaters, or alternatively feeding into a battery system for energy storage. Hydro sets are commonly used to recover energy in this way from small streams in remote areas. In this case, a series load control unit is used to ensure that when switching on any load, this is smoothly imposed onto the prime mover in a way which allows time for the prime mover to increase power to the new output required. In case the prime mover cannot provide sufficient power then the series load control device will restrict output to the load so as to maintain the controlled variable frequency, voltage etc . In order that the invention shall be clearly understood, an exemplary embodiment thereof will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawing, which shows a block diagram of a governing system for controlling a water turbine driven generating set. A water turbine 16 driving a generator 10 is supplied by a reservoir 17 through a control gate 18. This generator set supplies essential consumers B in the event of mains failure. Otherwise, the generator is in parallel with the mains network via an isolating switch S2, and supplies also non essential consumers A. In addition the generator set can be isolated by switch S1. In the drawing, the main supply and signal connections are shown in bold lines the dashed lines represent additional control possibilities. A controller 11 receives as its basic signal the frequency of the generator 10, and uses this as the determining factor in issuing output control signals. The supply from the generator to consumers B, and the output of the generator are controlled in three ways by a series connected load control 12 e.g. a thyristor which can reduce the voltage to consumers B by operation of an auxiliary load 14 which can instantaneously absorb or shed excess power and by influencing the power input to the generator by opening and closing control gate 18 using a valve control 15. During startup and synchronisation to the mains, switch S1 is opened, and the desired speed to produce a desired generation frequency i.e. normally mains frequency, is achieved by external operation of controller 11. This is used to operate the auxiliary load control 13. The valve control 15 is held at this stage in a partly open state to allow for control in either direction. At synchronism, S1 is closed and the speed setting of controller 11 is raised about 1 Hz above that of the mains, and a level control function put in operation. The valve control 15 is then regulated by controller 11 so as to maintain a desired level in the reservoir 17. Power generated is fed to consumers A and B, and any shortfall from generator 10 is supplied from the mains. In the event of mains failure, switch S2 is opened and the generator set is required to feed consumers B in isolation. In these circumstances, it is unlikely that the output of the set will precisely match the demand, and its speed will therefore rise or fall depending upon whether the output is greater or less than required. The speed change will alter the frequency, and this is sensed in the controller 11. It is then possible immediately to manipulate the auxiliary load control 13 so as to match the load to the actual output, but this may involve wasteful dissipation of energy. Therefore simultaneously, controller 11 will pass a signal to valve control 15 thus increasing or decreasing appropriately the power input to the generator 10. In certain circumstances, of course, it may be necessary also to actually reduce the total load of consumers B using control 12 if it cannot be supplied entirely by the generator set. Normally, however, the system is operated so that there is no continuous dissipation of energy in auxiliary load 14, or any power reduction to consumers by control 12 during steady state operations at any level of electrical system loading. Since an increased flow may cause the level of reservoir 17 to drop unduly, a warning signal may be necessary to alert an operator to the continuing depletion. In a modification of this system, certain vital consumers may receive their load by a supply tapped in between switch S1 and control 12. They will be supplied then without any danger of voltage drop.