# Phenolic esteramide antioxidants and their use.

## Abstract
A phenolic esteramide, useful in protecting organic mat erials such as synthetic and natural rubbers, petroleum pro ducts, and plastics from oxidative degradation, has the for mula R¹ COOANHM wherein A is C₂ to C₁₂ alkylene, C₄ to C₈ cycloalkylene or CH₂ C CH₂ p, wherein p is an integer from 3 to 6, or A is C₂ to C₅ alkylene substituted with one or two CH₂OCO CH₂

## Claims
Claims 1. An esteramide characterised in that it has the formula R1CD0ANHM, wherein A is C2 to C12 alkylene, C4 to C8 cycloalkylene or CH2 C CH2 p, wherein p is an integer from 3 to 6, or A is C2 to C5 alkylene substituted with one or two CH2OCO CH2 mR groups, wherein R is 3 W 5 Y4 hydroxyphenyl, wherein W and Y may be the same or different and are C1 to C12 alkyl and m is 0,1 or 2 R1 is CH2 mR3, wherein m and R3 are as defined above , and M is either hydrogen or COR2, wherein R2 is C1 to C20 alkyl, C6 to C10 aryl or phenyl substituted with halogen, C1 to C12 alkyl, Cl to C12 alkoxy, nitro or hydroxy or R is BCONHAOCOR1 where A and R1 are as defined above and B is a single bond, C1 to C10 alkylene, pheny lene, C4 to C12 oxydialkylene or C4 to C12 thiodialkylene, or R2 is the same as R1 which is defined above. 2. An esteramide according to claim 1, characterised in that A is C2 to C5 a ikylene, cyclohexylene or C2 to C4 alkylene substituted with one or two CH2OCO CH2 mR groups, R1 is CH2 m R wherein m is 2, W is tert butyl, Y is methyl or tert butyl, R2 is C1 to C18 alkyl, phenyl or phenyl substituted with a C1 to C4 alkyl, or hydroxy or R2 is BCONHAOCOR , wherein A and R are as defined above and B is a single bond, C1 to C8 alkylene, phenylene, C4 thiodialkylene, or Rê is the same asR1 which is defined above. 3. An esteramide according to claim 2, characterised in that B is as defined in claim 2, with the proviso that B may be a single bond only when A is C2 to C alkylene substituted with one or 3 two CH2OCO CH2 mR groups, wherein m and R3 are as defined in claim 2. 4. An esteramide according to claim 1, characterised in that B is as defined in claim 1, with the proviso that B may be a single bond only when A is C2 to C5 alkylene substituited with one or two CH2O CO CH2 mR groups, where m and R are as defined in claim 1. 5. A composition characterised in that it comprises an organic material subject to oxidative degradation and an oxidative degradation inhibiting amount of an esteramide according to any one of claims 1 to 4. 6. A method of inhibiting the oxidative degradation of an organic material characterised in that the method comprises adding to said material an oxidative degradation inhibiting amount of an esteramide according to any one of claims I to 4. 7. A method according to claim 6, characterised in that M is COR2. 8. A process for preparing an esteramide characterised in that the esteramide has the formula R1COOANHCOR2, wherein A is C2 to C12 alkylene, C4 to O8 cycloalkylene, or CH2C CH2 p wherein p is an integer from 3 to 6, orA is C2 to C5 alkylene substituted with one or two CH2OCO CH2 mR groups, wherein m is 0, 1 or 2 and R3 is 3 W5 Y 4 hydroxyphenyl wherein W and Y may be the same or different and are C1 to C12 alkyl R1 is CH2 mR , wherein m and R are as defined above, and Rê is C1 to C20 alkyl, C5 to C6 cycloalkyl, O6 to C10 aryl, phenyl substituted with halogen, C1 to C12 alkyl, C1 to C12 alkoxy, nitro or hydroxy, or R1 and R2 are CH2 mR3 wherein m and R3 are defined above, and B is a single bond 101 to C10 alkylene, C4 to C8 cycloalkylene, phenylene, C4 to C12 oxydialkylene or C4 to C12 thiodialkylene and the process comprises reacting a compound of the formula R1COOANH2 with a compound of the formula R4COX or B COX 2, wherein A, R1 and B are as defined above, X is halogen, hydroxy or C1 to C4 alkoxy and R4 is CH2 mR wherein m and R are as defined above, C1 to C20 alkyl, C4 to C8 cycloalkyl, C6 to C 10 aryl or phenyl substituted with halogen, C1 to C12 alkyl, C1 to C12 alkoxy, nitro, or hydroxy, said process being carried out at a temperature from 1500 to 250 C and at a pressure of 100Pa to lOkPa, with the proviso that if X is halogen, then an acid acceptor is employed in the reaction. 9. A process for preparing an esteramide characterised in that the esteramide has the formulaR1COOANHCOR2, wherein A is C2 to C5 alkylene, C2 to alkylene substituted with one or two CH2OCO CH2 mR groups, wherein R3 is 3 W 5 Y 4 hydroxyphenyl, wherein W and Y may be the same or different and are each c1 to C12 alkyl, and m is 0, 1 or 2, or A is C4 to O8 cycloalkylene or CH2C CH2 m wherein p is an integer from 3 to 6 and R1 is CH2 mR, and R2 is C1 to C20 alkyl, C6 to C10 aryl, or phenyl substituted with halogen C1 to C12 alkyl, C1 to C12 alkoxy, nitro or hydroxy, or R 2 isBCONHAOCOR1 wherein A and R1 are as defined above and B is a single bond, C1 to Oio alkylene, phenylene, C4 to C12 oxydialkylene or C4 to Cl thiodialkylene 10 and the process comprises reacting a compound of the formula R4C NH Q OH s or B CNH Q OH s 2 with a compound of the formula R1COX wherein Q is C2 to C12 alkylene, C1 to C8 cycloalkylene or CH2 CH2 p , s is an integer from 1 to 3, and B, R1, X and p are as defined above and R4 is CH2 mR , wherein m and R3 are as defined above, C1 to C20 alkyl, Cg to C6 aryl or phenyl substituted with halogen, Cl to C12 alkyl, C1 to C12 alkoxy, nitro or hydroxy, said process being carried out at a temperature from 1500 to 250 C and at a pressure of 100Pa to 10kPa, with the proviso that if X is halogen then an acid acceptor is employed in the reaction. 10. A process according to claim 8, characterised in that X is halogen and the process is carried out at 15 C to 100 C an insert solvent in the presence of an acid scavenger selected from one or more of an alkali metal hydroxide, an alkaline earth hydroxide, an alkali metal carbonate, an alkali metal bicarbonate, a trialkylamine wherein each alkyl group is the same or different and has from 1 to 12 carbon atoms, a dialkylarylamine wherein each alkyl group is the same or different and has from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, and pyridine. 11. A process according to claim 10, characterised in that R1 is CH2 2R3 and R2 and R4 are C1 to C20 alkyl, X is halogen, A is C2 to C12 alkyleneor C2 to C5 alkylene substituted with one or two CH20C0 CH2 2R3 groups and R3 is 3,5 di tert.butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl. 12. A process according to claim 10, characterised in that R.1 is CH2 2R , R2 isBCONHAOCOR1 , X is halogen, A is a C2 to C5 alkylene 3 substituted with one or two CH 0C0 CH R A is C2 to C12 alkylene and R3 2 2 m groups or A is C to C alkylene and R3 is 3,5 di tert. butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl. 13. A process according to claim 8, characterised in that R1 is CH2 mR and Rê and R4 are a C1 C20 alkyl and X is a C1 to C3 alkoxide and the process is carried out in an inert solvent at 30 to 150 C. 14. A process according to claim 8, characterised in that R2 is BCONHAOCOR1, R1 is is Is , Is CH2 mR and X is a C1 to C3 alkoxide and one process is carried out in an inert solvent at 20 to 1500C. 15. A process according to claim 9, characterised in that X is halogen and the process is carried out at 15 to 1000 C in an inert solvent in the presence of an acid scavenger selected from one or more of an alkali metal hydroxide, an alkaline earth hydroxide, an alkali metal carbonate, an alkali metal bicarbonate, a trialkylamine wherein each alkyl group is the same or di.fferent and has 1 to 12 carbon atoms, a dialkylarylamine wherein each alkyl group is the same or different and has 1 to 10 carbon atoms and the aryl group has 6 to 10 carbon atoms, and pyridine. 16. A process according to claim 15, characterised in that Rê and R4 are C1 to C20 alkyl and X is halogen. 17. A process according to claim 16, characterised in that m is 2, R3 is 3,5 di tert.butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl and A is C2 to C12 alkylene orC2 to C5 alkylene substituted with one or two 3 CH20CO CH2 mR groups. 18. A process according to claim 15, characterised in that R1 is CH2 mR , Rê isBCONHAOCOR1 and X is halogen. 19. A process according to claim 18, characterised in that R2 is BCONHADCOR1 and R3 is 3,5 tert. butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl, m is 2 and A is aC2 to C5 alkylene substituted with one or twoCH2OCO CH2 mR groups. 20. A process according to claim 18, characterised in that R2 is BCONHADCOR1 and R3 is 3,5 di tert. butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl, m is 2 and A is a C2 to C12 alkylene. 21. A process according to claim 9, characterised in that Rê is CH2 mR , Rê is a C1 toC20 alkyl and X is a C1 to C3 alkoxide and the process is carried out in an inert solvent at 30 to 1500C. 22. A process according to claim 21, characterised in that m is 2, R3 is 3,5 di tert.butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl and A is C2 to C12 alkylenet 23. A process according to claim 21, characterised in that A is a C2 to C5 alkylene substituted with one or two CH2OCO CH2 mR groups, m is 2 and R is 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl. 24. A process according to claim 9, characterised in that R2is BCONHAOCOR1, X is a C1 to C3 alkoxide and the process is carried out in an inert solvent at 20 to 150 C. 25. A process according to claim 24, characterised in that R3 is 3,5 di teK butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl, m is 2, and A is a C2 to C5 alkylene substituted with one or two CH2OCO CH2 mR groups. 26. A process according to claim 24, characterised in that R3 is 3,5 di tert. butyl 4hydroxyphenyl, m is 2, and A is a C2 to C12 alkylene. 27. A process according to any of claims 8 to 26, characterised in that the reaction is carried out for a period of 2 to 40 hours. 28.A process according to any one of claims 12, 19, 25 and 26 characterised in that B is a single bond.

## Description
PHENOLIC ESTERAMIDE ANTIOXIDANTS, THEIR USE AND METHODS FOR PREPARING THEM The present invention relates to novel phenolic esteramides which are useful in protecting organic materials such as synthetic and natural rubbers, petroleum products, and plastics from oxidative degradation. The present invention relates to compounds of the formulaR1COOANHM, wherein A is C2 to C12 alkylene, C4 to C8 cycloalkylene or CH2 C CH2 p, , wherein p is an integer from 3 to 6, or A is C2 to C5 alkylene substituted with one or two CH2OCO CH2 mR 3 groups1 wherein R3 is 3 W 5 Y 4 hydroxyphenyl, wherein W and Y may be the same or different and are C1 to C12 alkyl and m is 0,1 or 2 R1 is CH2 mR , wherein m and R3 are as defined above and M is either hydrogen or CORê, wherein R2 is C1 to C20 alkyl,C6 to C0 aryl or phenyl substituted with halogen, C1 to C12 alkyl,C1 to C12 alkoxy, nitro or hydroxy or R2 is BCONHAOCOR1 wherein A and R1 are as defined above and B is a single bond, C1 to C0 alkylene, phenylene, C4 to C12 oxydialkylene or C4 to C12 thiodialkylene, or Rê is the same as R1 which is defined above.The terms alkyl and alkylene comprise linear and branched moieties, the term cycloalkyl includes bridged groups having up to 8 carbon atoms. The present invention also relates to a process for preparing a compound having the formula R1COOANHCORê, wherein A is C2 toC12 alkylene, C4 to OB cycloalkylene, or CH2C CH2 wherein p is an integer from 3 to 6, or A is C2 to C5 alkylene substituted with one or two CH2OCO CH2 mR groups, wherein m is 0, 1 or 2 andR3 is 3 W 5 Y 4 hydroxyphenyl wherein W and Y may be the same or different and are C1 to C12 alkyl R1 is CH2 mR , wherein m and R3 are as defined above, and R2 is C1 to C20 alkyl, C5 to C6 cycloalkyl, C6 to C10 aryl, phenyl substituted with halogen, C to C12 alkyl, C1 to C12 alkoxy, nitro or hydroxy, or R1 and R2 are CH2 mR wherein m and R are defined above, and B is a single bond, Ci to C10 alkylene, C4 to C8 cycloalkylene, phenylene, C4 toC12 oxydialkylene or C4 to C12 thiodialkylene comprising reacting a compound of the formula R COOANH2 with a compound of the formula R4COX or B COX 2, wherein A, R1 and B are as defined above, X is halogen, hydroxy or C1 to C4 alkoxy and R4 is CH2 mR , wherein m and R are as defined above, C1 to C20 alkyl, C4 to C8 cycloalkyl, C6 to C10 aryl or phenyl substituted with halogen, Cl to C12 alkyl, C to C12 alkoxy, nitro, or hydroxy, said process being carried out at a temperature from 150C to 25000 and at a pressure of arried on iOkPa, with the proviso that if X is halogen, then an acid acceptor is employed in the reaction. The present invention also relates to a process for preparing a compound having the formula R1COOANHCOR2, wherein A is C2 toC5 alkylene, C2 to C5 alkylene substituted with one or twoC5 groups, wherein R3is 3 W 5 Y 4 hydroxyphenyl, wherein W and Y may be the same or different and are each C1 to C12 alkyl, and m is 0, 1 or 2, or A is C4 to C8 cycloalkylene or CH2C CH2 p wherein p is an integer from 3 to 6 andR1 is CH2 mR , and Rê is C1 to C20 alkyl, C6 to C10 aryl, or phenyl substituted with halogen, C1 to C12 alkyl, C1 to C12 alkoxy, nitro or hydroxy, or R2 is BCONHANOCOR1 wherein A and alkoxy, nit defined above and B is a single bond, C1 to alkylene, phenylene, O4 to 012 oxydialkylene or C4 to C12 thio dialkylene comprising reacting a compound of the formulaR4C NH Q1 OH 6 or B CNH Q OH with a compound of the formula R1COX wherein Q is C2 to C12 alkylene, C4 to C8 cycloalkylene or CH2 CH2 n , s is an integer from 1 to 3, and B, andX and p are as defined above and R4 is CH2 mR, wherein m andR are as defined above, C1 to C20 alkyl, C5 to C6 aryl or phenyl substituted with halogen, C1 to C12 alkyl, C1 to C12 alkoxy, nitro or hydroxy, said process being carried out at a temperature from 1500 to 250 C and at a pressure of 100Pa to 10kPa, with the proviso that if X is halogen then an acid acceptor is employed in the reaction. The present invention also relates to compositions comprising the compounds of the present invention and organic materials subject to oxidative degradation. A is preferably alkylene having terminal OH2 groups. Most preferably the ester and amide groups are attached to alpha 0112 terminated alkylene not having hydrogen on the carbon atoms in the beta position. The preferred definitiong of 1 R2 depends to some extent on the projected use of the product. When high hydrocarbon solubility is desired the r1 RZ should be a long chain hydrocarbon having 11 to 17 carbon atoms. In a particularly useful compound Ú Rê is C17H35. If low volatility is desired, Rê is preferably BCONHAOCORÚ, wherein B, A and RÚ are as defined above. Particularly useful are compounds wherein B is a single covalent bond. Particularly high molecular weights and low volatilities can be achieved when R2 is BCONHAOCOR1 wherein A is an alkylene substituted with CH2OCo CH2 mR3 wherein m and R3 are as defined above.The preferred halogens are fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. The compounds of the present invention are useful in stabilizing organic materials normally subject to oxidative degradation.Materials that are thus stabilized include a multitude of synthetic polymers. Among those polymers are various polyolefins such as polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutylene, polybutadiene, polymethylpentene. Other polymers stabilized by the compounds of the present invention include acetal resins, polyacrylates, polymethacrylates, polydialkylpthalate, cellulosics, polyamides, polyesters, polyurethanes, polycarbonate, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinylidene chloride. Copolymers can also be stabilized by the compounds of the present invention. Representative copolymers include ethylene propylene copolymers, butadiene styrene copolymers, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers, and ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymers.Copolymers also include terpolymers such as ethylene propylene non conjugated diene terpolymers and acrylonitrile buta diene styrene interpolymers. Polymer blends such as polystyrene polyphenylene oxide and ethylenepropylene copolymer or terpolymer polypropylene can also be stabilized by the compounds of the present invention. Other materials stabilized by compounds of the present invention include hot melt adhesives such as those based on polyesters, polyamides or ethylene vinyl acetate. Also stabilized are petroleum products such as fuels, lubricating oils, petrolatum jellies, and natural products such as natural rubber, waxes, fat, tallow, linseed oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, and codliver oil. The preceding list is representative, though by no means exhaustive, of the products that can benefit from the compounds of the present invention. To achieve protection against oxidative degradation, the compounds of the present invention are added in the amounts gen erally used for known antioxidants which may have similar properties to achieve such protection. Depending on the substrate used, the antioxidant is added in amounts of 0.001 to 10 percent by weight based on the weight of the substrate, with the usual range being from 0.05 to 2.0 percent. The compounds of the present invention can be used by themselves to stabilize organic materials, or they can be used in combination with other stabilizers. Such other stabilizers might include other phenolics, thio compounds of various kinds, such as thiodipropionate esters, phosphites and phosphonates, anti copper chemicals such as oxalamides ultramolet stabilizers of various kinds as well as other additives where the use of such additives has been found beneficial. The compounds of the present invention can generally be made from known starting materials by amidification and esterification reactions well known in the literature. Convenient aminoalcohols used in the preparation of the compounds of the present invention include ethanolamine, 2 aminopropanol, 2 amino 2 methyl 1propanol, 3 amino 2 methyl 1 propanol, 2 amino 2 methyl ,3propanediol, 2 amino 2 ethyl 1, 3 propanediol, 2 amino l butanol, tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane, 1 amino 1 cyclop entanem ethanol , 1 aminomethyl 1 cyclohexanemethanol, 6 amino 1 hexanol, 2 amino 3 methyl 1 butanol, 5 amino 1 pentanol, 3 amino 1, 2 propanediol, 3 amino 1 propanol, 2 aminocyclohexanol, 4 amino cyclohexanol, 3 amino 2 butanol, 1 amino 2 dodecanol, 2, 2 di methyl 3 amino 1 propanol, 2 aminomethyl 2 methyl 1 ,3 propanediol, 2,2, 2 tris hydr oxymethyl amino3ethane. Many other aminoalcohols are readily made by known methods from available starting materials. A convenient synthesis of a compound of the present invention would generally include making the amide from one of the aforementioned alkanolamines followed by esterification of the hydroxyalkylamide. The amide can readily be prepared by reacting the alkanolamine with an appropriate acid, acid chloride or an ester. Suitable acids include C1 to 021 aliphatic acids, benzoic acid, substituted benzoic acids such as alkylbenzoic acid, chlorobenzoic acid, dialkylbenzoic acid, 4 hydroxy 3,5 di alkylbenzoic acid, 2 4 hydroxy 3, 5 di alkylphenyl acetic acid or 3 4 hydroxy 3 , 5 di alkyiphenyl pro pionic acid. When the bisamides are desired, then suitable acids include oxalic acid, phthalic acid, terephthalic acid, thiodialkanoic acid and aliphatic diacids of the structure HO CO CnH2n C00H where n is an integer from 1 to 10. Examples of such acids are malonic, succinic, adipic, palmitic, azaleic, sebacic and others. The esters and acid chlorides of all of the abovementioned acids are likewise suitable starting materials in making amides. It is recognized that imides can form from some of the aforementioned acids. Suitable precautions, such as use of milder conditions and a large excess of amine to maximize amide formation, are advisable jn such instances. The usual starting material for esterification is a 3 ,5 dialkyi 4 hydroxybenzoic acid, a 2 3, 5 dialkyl 4 hydroxyphenyl acetic acid or a 3 3, 5 dialkyl d thydroxyphenyl propionic acid, its acid chloride or ester If an esteramide is desired where R1 and R2 are identical, the the esterification and amidification can be carried out in one step. When the starting amine is ethanolamine, substituted with alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, then a convenient alternative to the above methods is available. This involves forming an oxazoline from the acid or its derivative and the amino alcohol according to known methods.The oxazoline can then be hydrolized to an aminoester, which in turn can be amidified according to known procedures. The preparations indicated above are mentioned as non limiting examples of ways to carry out the objects of this invention. Other methods will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art. The following non limiting examples further illustrate the preparation and use of the compounds of the present invention. Example 1 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl N 2 hydroxyethyl pro pionamide In a 3 liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and Stark and Dean trap with a condenser was placed 556g 2.0 moles of 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl pro pionic acid, 135g 2.2 moles of ethanolamine and 500 ml of xylene.The mixture was refluxed for 11 hours and 79 ml of azeotrope was collected. The xylene was removed at reduced pressure and the residue dissolved in hot toluene. The title compound 211g which crystallized on cooling melted at 129 130 C. Example 2 2 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionamido ethyl laureate A mixture of 44g .22 mole lauric acid, 64g 0.2 mole of 3 3, 5 di 3 tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl N 2 I.lydroxyethyl propion amide, 2g Tyzor TBT trademark, tetrabutyl titanate catalyst and 100 ml xylene was refluxed for 5 hours. The water 3.8 ml was collected in a Stark Dean trap. The xylene was removed by vacuum stripping. The residue was taken up in acetonitrile. After the solution was cooled in the freezer, a white prec,ipitate formed.The acetonitrile was removed by decantation and the recrystallization was repeated. The final traces of acetonitrile were removed by heating the product under vacuum and the title product 66g thus obtained was an amber oil at room temperature. Example 3 2 3 3, 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionamido ethyl stearate A mixture of 32.1g 0.l mole 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl N 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide, 28.5 g 0.1 mole stearic acid, 1g Tyzor TBT catalyst, and 50 ml xylene was refluxed at 140 170 C until evolution of water ceased. The Stark Dean trap captured 3.5 ml of water. The xylene was removed by vacuum stripping and the residue was crystallized from acetonitrile. The title compound 53g melted at 55 570C. Example 4 N 2 hydroxyethyl 1auramide To a solution of 24g 0.4 mole ethanolamine in 100 ml toluene was added 40g 0.2 lauric acid at 50 C. The mixture was refluxed for 6 hours. Toluene was gradually removed to increase the final pot temperature to 1400 C. The distillate was collected in a Stark BR Dean trap. The toluene was removed by vacuum stripping and the residue was crystallized from n hexane. The title compound 44g thus obtained melted at 80 84 C. Example 5 2 lauramido ethyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate A mixture of 13.9g .055 mole N 2 hydroxyethyl lauramide, 13. 9g 0.05 mole 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid, 0.5g Tyzor TBT catalyst and 100 ml xylene was refluxed until evolution of water ceased 3 hours . The xylene was removed by vacuum stripping. The residue was taken up in acetonitrile White crystals separated upon cooling at about D C. The acetonitrile was decanted and the recrystallization was repeated. The last traces of acetonitrile were removed under vacuum, and the title product thus obtained was a yellow oil at room temperabre. Example 6 N 2 hydroxyethyl stearamide To a solution of 24.4g 0.4 mole ethanolamine in 500 ml ethanol at 60 C was added 85.2g 0.3 mole stearic acid. The ethanol was distilled off until the pot temperature reached 100 C, at which time 300 ml toluene was added, and the water was distilled off as an azeotrope. After 5 hours at 110 C, 6 ml water was recovered in the Stark Dean trap. Some toluene was removed to raise the pot temperature to 13500. After an additional 4 hours, another 7 ml water was trapped. The title product 38.5g that crystallized on cooling had a melting point of 96 990C. Example 7 2 stearamidoethyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate A mixture of 30.6g 0.11 mole 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl propionic acid, 32. 6g 0.1 mole N 2 hydroxyethyl stearamide, 0.8g Tyzor TBT, and 100 ml xylene was refluxed for six hours. The water 1.8 ml was trapped in a Stark Dean trap.The solution was filtered through Microcel trademark, synthetic calcium silicate and the solvent was removed by vacuum stripping. The title compound 51g was recrystallized from acrylonitrile. It melted at 52 550C. Example 8 2 13 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphens1 propionamidolethy1 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate A mixture of 32g 0.1 mole of 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl N 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide, 27g 0.1 mole of 3 3, 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid, 1 g Tyzor TBT catalyst and 100 ml xylene was refluxed at 150 until evolution of water ceased. In the course of four hours, two ml water was collected in the Stark Dean trap. The xylene was removed by vacuum stripping. The title compound 54g was recrystallized from a toluene hexane mixture. It melted at 151 1540C. Example 9 2 2 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl ethyl 4,4 dimethyl2 oxazoline A mixture of 167g 0.6 mole 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid, 65g 1.06 mole 2 amino 2 methylpropanol and 100 ml xylene was refluxed for six hours. The water was trapped in a Stark Dean trap. The mixture was poured into 300 ml hexane, and upon cooling the crystalline product was filtered off.The title product l0lg thus obtained melted at 138 1410C. Example 10 2 amino 2 methylpropyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl propionate In a 1 liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and condenser were placed 66.2g 0.2 mole 2 2 3, 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl ethyl 4 ,4 dimethyl 2 oxazoline, 400 ml isopropanol and 33 ml 6N hydrochloric acid. The mixture was heated to 45 C for 2 hours and then cooled. To this stirred solution were added 250 ml of water and 33 ml of 6N sodium hydroxide. The product was removed by filtration and dried The title compound, 52g , thus obtained, melted at 97 990C. Example 11 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl N 1,1 dimethyl 2 bydroxyethyl propionamide In a liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and condenser were placed 34.9g 0.1 mole 2 amino 2 methylpropyll 3 3, 5 di I i tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate and 200 ml isopropanol. The mixture was refluxed for 15 hours. The solvent was stripped off, and the residue was dissolved in hot hexane. The title compound 20g was removed by filtration and dried. It melted at 120 122 C. Example 12 2 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionamido 2methylpropyl laurate A solution of 55g 0.25 lauroyl chloride in 50 ml toluene was added dropwise to a solution of 70g 0.2 mole 3 3 ,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl N 1, 1 dimethyl 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide in 60 ml dimethylaniline and 50 ml toluene. The mixture was heated 41 hours at 50 C. The mixture was washed with dilute hydrochloric acid followed by a brine wash. The toluene was removed by vacuum stripping. The residue was taken up in acetonitrile. The solution was shaken with decolorizing charcoal, filtered, and then placed in a freezer. The title compound 20g crystallized and was removed by filtration. It melted at 24 27 C. Example 13 2 3 3, 5 di tert butYl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionamidol 2 methylpropyl palmltate In a 1 liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and dropping funnel were placed 13g 0.037 mole of 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl N 1,1 dimethyl 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide, 10g triethylamine and 250 ml of benzene. To this stirred mixture was added 10.2g 0.037 mole of palmitoyl chloride, and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours. The mixture was filtered and stripped and the residue dissolved in hot acetonitrile. Some palmitic anhydride crystallized out, and it was filtered off. The acetonitrile solution was refrigerated overnight and the title compound 20g crystallized. It was removed by filtration and then dried. It melted at 4l43CC. Example 14 2 palmitamido 2 inethylpropyl 3 3, phenyl propionate In a 1 liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and dropping funnel were placed 17.5g 0.05 mole of 2 amino 2 methylpropyl mole of 2 amino 2 methyl methylpropyl 3 3,5 di tbutyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 3,5 di tbutyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate, 500 ml of benzene and 10g of triethylamine. To this stirred mixture was added 14g 0.05 of palmitoyl chloride and the mixture stirred for four hours. The mixture was filtered and stripped, and the residue dissolved in hot acetonitrile. After being stored for about 4 days at about 50C, the product crystallized. It was removed by filtration and dried.The title compound, 14g thus obtained, melted at 43 46 C. Example 15 2 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionamido 2methylpropyl stearate In a 1 liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and dropping funnel were placed 26.2g 0.075 mole of 3 3, 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl N 1,1 dinethyl 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide, 20g triethylamine and 400 ml benzene.To this stirred mixture was added 22.5g 0.075 mole of stearoyl chloride, and the reaction was stirred for 18 hours. The triethylamine hydrochloride was removed by filtration, and the solvent was stripped off. The residue was dissolved in hot hexane, and 2.5g of stearic anhydride was isolated. The hexane was stripped off, and the residue was dissolved in hot acetonitrile. The title compound crystallized on cooling. It was removed by filtration and was dried. It melted at 59 61 C. Example 16 .2 stearamido 2 methylpropyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate In a 500 ml, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and dropping funnel were placed 26g 0.075 mole of 2 amino 2 methylpropyl 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate, 200 ml of benzene and 8.2g of triethylamine. To this stirred mixture was added 22.5g 0.075 mole of stearoyl chloride, and the mixture stirred for 4 hours. The triethylamine hydrochloride was removed by filtration and the solvent was stripped off.The residue was dissolved in hot hexane. After crystallization, filtration and drying, the title compound melted at 46 480C. Example 17 2 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxybenzamido 2 methylpropyl 3 3,5di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate In a 1 liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and dropping funnel were placed 34.9g 0.1 mole of 2 amino 2 methylpropyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate, 20g of triethylamine and 400 ml of benzene. To this stirred mixture was added 26.8g o.094 mole of 3,5 di t butyl4 hydroxybenzoyl chloride, and the mixture was stirred overnight.The mixture was filtered and stripped, and the residue was slurried with hexane. The product was filtered off and recrystallized from isopropanol. The title compound 30.5g thus obtained melted at 192 1940C. Example 18 2 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionamido iso butanetriyl tris 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl pr pionate A solution of 85g 0.27 mole 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyl chloride in 120 ml toluene was added to 7.3g 0.06 mole tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane in 60 ml pyridine and 30 ml toluene. The mixture was stirred 42 hours at 60 C. The mixture was washed with dilute acid and then with brine. The toluene was removed by vacuum stripping and the residue was crystallized in n hexane. The title compound thus obtained melted at 118 122 C. Elemental Analyses Calculated Found C 74.37 74.19 H 9.28 9.47 N 1.21 1.11 Example 19 2 r2 3,5 di tert butYl 4 hydroxyphenyl ethyll 2 oxazoline 4,4 dimethyl bis 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate A mixture of 167g 0.6 mole 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl propionic acid, 24.2g 0.2 mole tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane and 100 ml xylene were refluxed for 6 hours. The water was collected in a Stark and Dean trap. The hot mixture was poured hot into 300 ml hexane. The title product precipitated. It was recrystallized from benzene to give the title compound 166. 5g melting at 173 1750C. Elemental Analysis Calculated Found C 74.70 74.53 H 9.23 9.09 N 1.58 1.34 Example 20 2 stearamidoisobutanetriyl trisf3 3 5 di tert butyl 4 hy droxyphenyl propionate To 44.2g 0.05 mole of 2 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl ethyl 2 oxazoline 4,4 dimethyl bis 3 3,5 ditert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate in 200 ml toluene was added 8.2 ml 6N hydrochloric acid. The mixture was stirred for 4 hours, and 8g sodium bicarbonate was then added. The water layer was separated, and to the organic layer was added 40 ml triethylamine, followed by 15.1g 0.05 mole stearoyl chloride in 30 ml toluene.This mixture was stirred overnight at room termperature and was then stirred one hour at 50 C. Upon cooling, the mixture was washed first with dilute hydrochloric acid and then with brine.The toluene was removed by vacuum stripping. The residue was purified by passing it through a silica column using 50 50 volume toluene hexane mixture as the eluent. The title compound 28g obtained after evaporation of the eluent, melted at 77 7900. Example 21 N, N bis hydroxyethyl oxamide To a solution of 134g 0.22 mole ethanolamine in 1 liter of ethanol was added 146g 0.1 mole diethyl oxalate in the course of one hour. The mixture was heated for one hour at 50 C. The title compound 162g precip.tated upon cooling. After filtration and drying, it melted at 166 168 C. Example 22 2,2 oxalyldiamidobis ethyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl propionate 1 A mixture of 55.6g 0.2 mole of 3 3 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid, 17. 6g 0.1 mole of N ,N bis 2 hyb droxyethyl oxamide, 1.5 g Tyzor TBT, and 200 ml xylene was refluxed. The water and xylene were removed until the pot temperature reached 200 C. Upon cooling the title compound 54g crystallized out. After recrystallization from toluene, it melted at 128 1310C. Example 23 2,2 oxalyldiamidobis 2 methylpropyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4hydroxyphenyl proplonate b In a 500 ml, three neck round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and dropping funnel were placed 35g 0.1 mole of 2 amino 2 methylpropyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate, 250 ml of benzene and 20g of triethylamine. To this stirred mixture was added 6.35g 0.05 mole of oxalyl chloride, and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours. The mixture was filtered, and the solvent was stripped off. The residue was dissolved in a 2 1 mixture of benzene hexane and allowed to cool. After the crystalline product 22g was recrystallized from a 2 1 mixture of benzene hexane, it melted at 169 171 C. Example 24 2,2 adipamidobis 2 methylpropyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4hydroxyphenyl propionate In a 1 liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and dropping funnel were placed 29g 0.083 mole of 2 amino 2 methylpropyl 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl propionate , 20g of triethylamine and 400 ml benzene. To this stirred mixture was added 7.6g 0.0415 mole of adipoyl chlo ride, and the mixture was stirred for 4 hours. The mixture was filtered and stripped, anti the residue dissolved ira hot hexane.The product crystallized and was then recrystallized from a mixture of 400 ml of isooctane 125 ml of toluene. The purified product 21g melted at 135 1380C. Example 25 2,2 sebacamidobis 2 methylpropyl 3 3 ,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate 1 In a 1 liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and dropping funnel were placed 34. 9g 0.1 mole of 2 amino 2 methylpropyl 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate, 20g of triethylamine and 400 ml of benzene. To this stirred mixture was added 11.9g 0.05 mole of sebacoyl chloride, and the mixture was stirred for 5 hours. The mixture was filtered and stripped, and the residue was dissolved in hot hexane. A solid separated and it was recrystallized from hexane benzene 3 1 . The title compound 32g thus obtained melted at 113 1170C. Example 26 2,2 sebacamidobis isobutanetriyl trist3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate To 44.2g 0.05 mole of 2 2 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl ethyl 2 oxazoline 4 , 4 dimethyl bis 3 3, 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionatej in 200 ml toluene was added 8.2 ml 6N hydroxhloric acid. The mixture was stirred for 3 hours, and 6g sodium bicarbonate was then added. The mixture was stirred 15 minutes, and the layers were separated. To the organic layer was added 40 ml triethylamine followed by 6g 0.025 mole sebacoyl chloride in 30 ml toluene. This mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature, and was then stirred one hour at 50 C. Upon cooling, the mixture was washed first with dilute hydrochloric acid and then with brine. The toluene was removed by vacuum stripping. The residue was taken up in 1 1 toluene hexane and passed through a fluorosil column. The title compound llg , isolated after removal of solvent, melted at 134 1410C. Example 27 N N t bis 1, 1 bw s hYdroxemethy1 hydroxyethX terephthal amide In a liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and condenser were placed 194g 1.0 mole of dimethyl terephthalate, 242g 2.0 mole tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane and 1 liter of methanol. The mixture was refluxed for 8 hours and then allowed to cool. The title compound crystallized and was removed by filtration and dried. The melting point was 188 190 C. Example 28 2,2 terephthalamidobis isobutanetriyl tris 3 3,5 di tertbutyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate In a 1 liter, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer, dropping funnel and condenser were placed 18.6g 0.05 mole of N,N bis 1,1 bis hydroxymethyl 2 hydroxyethyl terephthalamide and 200 ml of pyridine. To this stirred slurry was added 90g 0.3 mole of 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl propionyl chloride at 20 30 C, and the mixture was stirred for 18 hours. The mixture was filtered and stripped, and the residue was dissolved in hot cyclohexane. Trace amounts of pyridine hydrochloride were filtered off and the solution was allowed to cool. The title product 61g crystallized on cooling.After recrystallization from methanol, it melted at 169 172 C Example 29 3,3 Thiobis 2 propionamidoethyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hy phenyl propionatej A solution of 26.8g o.44 mole ethanolamine and 41.2g 0.2 mole dimethyl 3,3 thiodipropionate in 100 ml ethanol was refluxed for 5 hours. The 3,3 thiobis N 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide precipitated as a white crystalline solid and upon washing with acetone melted at l30l320. A mixture of 18g 0.068 mole at the aforementioned intermediate, 41. 7g 0.15 mole 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid and lg Tyzor TBT catalyst in 100 ml xylene was refluxed until evolution of water ceased. 3.5 ml of water was recovered in the Stark and Dean trap. Upon evaporation of the xylene, the product 51g was obtained as a viscous yellow oil. Example 30 3,3 thiobis 2 methyl 2 propionamidopropyl 3 3,5 di tertbutyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate A mixture of 40g 0.44 mole 2 amino 2methylpropanol, 3g of potassium tert butoxide and 41.2g 0.2 mole dimethyl 3,3 thiodipropionate was stirred for 1 2 hour at room temperature and was then heated to 90 C. for 1 2 hour under vacuum. The excess 2 amino 2methylpropanol was removed by vacuum stripping. Onehalf 0.1 mole of the resulting 3,3 thiobis N l,l dimethyl 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide was heated with 61.2g 0.2 mole ethyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate and 2g potassium tert butoxide for 2 hours under vacuum at l00 ll00C. The mixture was taken up in toluene, neutralized with acetic acid and washed with water.Upon removal of the toluene by vacuum distillation, the title compound 79g was obtained as a viscous yellow oil. Example 31N,N bis 2 hydroxyethyl terephthalamide A mixture of 194g 1.0 mole of dimethyl terephthalate, 150 ml 2.46 mole ethanolamine and 300 ml ethanol was refluxed for 7 hours. On cooling the title product separated. It was filtered and then washed with ethanol. After drying, it melted at 227 229 C. Example 32 2,2 terephthalamido N,N bis ethyl 3 3, 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate To a mixture of 25.2g 0.1 mole N,N bis 2 hydroxyehtyl terephthalamide and 200 ml pyridine was added 59.3g 0.2 mole of 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyl chloride in 300 ml toluene. The mixture was stirred for 2 hours. It was then heated to 90 C and filtered hot. The solvent was removed by distillation and the residue was crystallized from n hexane. The title product 68g thus obtained was filtered and then washed with hot water. After drying, it melted at 173 175 C. Example 33 3 oxalylamido bis propyl 3 3, 5 dj tert butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl proPionate Diethyl oxalate 73g 0.5 mole was added over the course of a half hour to a solution of 82.5g 1.1 mole 3 amino 1 propanol in 500 ml ethanol. The temperature rose to 50 C. The mixture was stirred for an hour and the resulting precipitate m.p. 156 158 C was separated by filtration. A portion 20.4 g of the N,N 3hydroxypropyl oxamide thus obtained was added to a mixture of 61.2 0.22 mole 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid, 100 ml xylene and 2 g Tyzor TBT catalyst. The mixture was refluxed for four hours and then filtered thorugh Microcel. The xylene was removed by vacuum distillation. The residue was taken up in hot hexane.The title compound crystallized on cooling and melted at 120 123 C. Elemental Analysis Calculated Found C 69.61 69.96 H 8.84 8.84 N 3.87 4.02 Example 34 3 steramidopropyl 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate Stearic acid 56.8g 0.2 mole was added to a hot 80 C mixture of 30g 0.4 mole 3 aminopropanol, 100 ml xylene and 0.5 g sodium methoxide.The mixture was heated at reflux for two hours with removal of water and was then poured into hexane, in whichN 3 hydroxypropyl stearamide crystallized and was obtained by filtration it melted at 83 89 C. After the product was recrystallized from acetone, melting point rose to 94 960C. A 34.1g 0.1 mole portion of this intermediate was heated with 27.8g 0.1 mole of 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid, ig of TyzorTBT catalyst and 100 ml xylene. After the mixture was refluxed for 3 hours, 2 ml of water was collected in the Stark and Dean trap. The xylene was distilled off under vacuum, and the residue was crystallized from acetonitrile. The title product 29g thus obtained melted at 50 52 C. Example 35N 2, 2 dimethyl 3 hydroxypropyl stearamide In a 500 ml, three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer and a Stark and Dean trap with condenser were placed 119.4g of methyl stearate, 41g of 3 amino 2,2 dimethylpropanol and 3g of potassium tert butoxide. The mixture was heated to 190 C, and the methanol distilled off. The reaction mixture was dissolved in hot isopropanol and filtered. On cooling, the product crystallized, and after filtration and drying it melted at 440C. IR showed an ester carbonyl. The pure product was obtained by washing with hot hexane. The pure product melted at 68 69OC . Example 36 2,2 Dimeth 1 3 stearamido ro 1 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hy droxylPhenYl propionate In a l liter three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer, stirrer, dropping funnel and condenser were placed 36.9g of N 2,2 dimethyl 3 hydroxypropyl stearamide, 25 ml of triethylamine and 250 ml of toluene. To this stirred mixture was added 29. 6g of 3 3 , 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyl chloride. The mixture was filtered, stripped, and the residue was dissolved in hot methanol. The 2,2 dimethyl 3 stearamidopropyl stearate, melting at 60 62 C was isolated. The methanol solution was stripped, and the residue was dissolved in acetonitrile. The title compound was isolated it melted at 44 C. Example 37N,N bis 2,2 dimethyl 3 hydroxypropyl oxamide In a 0.1 liter round bottom flask were placed 12.0g of 3 amino 2, 2 dimethylpropanol and 20 ml of ethanol. To this stirred solution was added 8.5g of diethyl oxalate, and the mixture was stirred.An exotherm was observed. On cooling, the title compound separated. It was removed by filtration and recrystallized from ethanol.The title product melted at 125 126 C. Exam 38 3 Oxalyldiamidobisl,2 dimethylpropyl 3 3, 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl proplonate In a I liter three neck, round bottom flask equipped with a thermometer stirrer, dropping funnel and condenser were placed 13g of N,N bis 2,2 dimethyl 3 hydroxypropyl oxamide, 25 ml of tri , ethylamine and 250 ml of toluene. To this stirred solution was added 29. 6g of 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyl chloride. The mixture was stirred for four hours, filtered and stripped. The residue was heated with hot hane. The title compound separated immediately. It was removed by filtration, andIt melted at 143 1440C. Example 39 2 Stearamidoethyl 3, 4 di tert butyl 4 hydroxybenzoate A mixture of 25g 0.1 mole 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxybenzoic acid, 50 ml toluene and 8.5 ml thionyl chloride was refluxed for 3 hours. The excess thionyl chloride and the toluene were removed on a rotary evaporator. The acid chloride was dissolved in 50 ml toluene and was added to a mixture of 29.4g 0.09 mole N 2hydroxyethyl stearamide, 20 ml toluene and 15 ml pyridine. The mixture was refluxed for two hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled, quenched with water, washed with dilute hydrochloric acid and with water. The toluene was removed by distillation, and the residue was cryastallized from hexane. The title compound thus obtained melted at 56 580C. Example 40 This example shows the usefulness of the compounds of the present invention in polypropylene. It also shows the beneficial effect observed by using the compounds of the present invention in conjunction with a co stabilizer. The particular compound used in each run of this Example and of the succeeding Examples is identified by the number of one of the above Examples in which the preparation of the compound is described. The stabilizers were incorporated into Profax 6501 trademark polypropylene resin on a mill at 166 C Seventy five mil plaques discs approximately one inch in diameter and 75 mil Cl 0.9 mm thick were prepared by compression molding in a press at 27,000 psi 186 MPa and 177 C. These specimens were placed in a forced air oven at 1490C, and the number of days required for embrittlement to occur was noted. When two out of three buttons embrittled that is, they became granular due to heat aging , the specimen was considered ta have failed. The results are shown in Table I. Table 1 Days toCompound Co Stabilizer Concentration Failure none 1DSTDP 0.2 4Example 3 0.2 41Example 3 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 36Example 7 0.2 32Example 7 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 25Example 8 . 0.2 34Example 8 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 61Example 13 0.2 42Example 13 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 59Example 14 0.2 39Example 14 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 60Example 15 0.2 34Example 15 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 55Example 17 0.2 26Example 17 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 45Example 18 0.2 43Example 18 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 69Example 20 0.2 48Example 20 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 78Example 22 0.2 62Example 22 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 82Example 23 0.2 59Example 23 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 98Example 24 0.2 28Example 24 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 45Example 25 0.2 35Example 25 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 48Example 26 0.2 55Example 26 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 76Example 28 0.2 61Example 28 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 55Example 32 .2 40Example 32 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 64Example 33 0.2 56Example 33 DSTDP 0.1 0.1 84 parts by weight per hundred parts by weight of polypropylene distearyl thiodipropionate Example 41 This example shows the usefulness of the compounds of the present invention in EPDM ethylene propyl ene 5 ethylidene 2 nor bornene terpolymer having an ethylene propylene weight ratio of 67 33, an iodine number of 10 and a Mooney viscosity ML 4 at 1200C of 57 . The stabilizers 0. 165g were dissolved in a rubber cement containing 110g of EPDM in 2,000g hexane. The hexane was removed by slowly adding the cement to boiling water. The solids were removed from the boiling water by filtration and were dried on a mill for 5 minutes at 275 3000F 135 149 C . The time necessary for a 1g sample to absorb 20 cm of oxygen at 150 C was then determined T20 . The results are shown inTable 2, indicating the excellent protection conveyed on the EPDM through the presence of the compounds of the present invention. Table 2 Additive T20 minutes None 30 Example 15 560 Example 16 260 Example 23 405 Example 42 The example shows the usefulness of the compounds of the present invention in a dynamically cured elastomeric blend of polypropylene 20 parts by weight and ethylene propylene dicyclopentadiene terpolymer 80 parts by weight . The compound was milled into the blend at a concentration of 0.3 parts per hundred parts by weight of blend. Seventy five mil 1.9 mm plaques were compression molded, and buttons were punched from these plaques. The buttons were placed in a forced air oven at 1490C, and the time for three of five buttons to embrittle was noted. The results are shown in Table 3. Table 3 Bours to Additive Embrittlement None 80 Example 23 275 Example 43 This example shows the usefulness of the compounds of the present invention ih high impact polystyrene. The antioxidant 0.25 parts by weight per hundred parts by weight of polystyrene was milled into a high impact polystyrene stock at 13800. Notched Izod bars were molded at 170 C. After a determination of impact strength was made, the Izod bars were ground and remolded. This procedure was repeated five times.The percent impact strength retention after five moldings is shown below in Table 4. Table 4 Impact Strength Antioxidant Retention None 58.3 Example 15 76.2 Example 16 66.3 Example 23 85.2 Example 44 This experiment demonstrates the unexpectedly superior efficacy of the compound of Example 32 over di 2 3 3,5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionamide , prepared according to U.S.S.R.Patent 567,719 Glushkova , in polypropylene. The test samples were prepared and tested essentially following the procedure ofExample 35, with the results shown in Table 5 Table 5 Compound O Level Days to FailureExample 32 2A pS 40Example 32 DSTDP .1 .l 64Prior Art .2 6Prior Art DSTDP .1 .1 ,