# Membrane gas separation processes.

## Abstract
Membrane gas separation processes for permeating gas species which can adversely affect the permeation character istics of a membrane are disclosed. Permeability creep induced by permeating gas species such as acid gases is reduced by maintaining the partial pressure of permeated acid gases at a sufficiently low level. In particular, carbon dioxide is effectively separated in a membrane gas separator process utilizing a hollow fiber membrane having a sufficiently high ratio of bore diameter ² length.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process to separate at least one gas from a feed gas mixture by permeation through a hollow fiber membrane having an outer feed side surface and a central bore, said hollow fiber membrane exhibiting selectivity to the permeation of said at least one gas and said hollow fiber membrane having a permeability creep more negative than about 0.1 when exposed to critical partial pressures of said at least one gas, said process comprising a permeating a gas mixture enriched in said at least one gas from the outer feed side surface to the bore of said membrane, said permeating being effected by maintaining the partial pressure of said at least one gas at the outer feed side side surface of said. membrane higher than the partial pressure of said at least one gas in the bore of said membrane b removing a permeate gas mixture enriched in said at least one gas from the bore of said membrane wherein said membrane has a ratio of bore diameter ê length sufficiently great that the permeate gas mixture is removed from the bore at a rate sufficiently great that the partial pressure of said at least one gas in the bore does not exceed said critical partial pressure wherein the permeability creep of the membrane is less negative than 0.1. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said at least one gas comprises at least one of carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, an aromatic hydrocarbon gas, water, ammonia, a nitrogen oxide, cyanogen, methyl mercaptan, or a substituted methyl gas. 3. The process of claim 2 wherein said feed gas mixture comprises carbon dioxide and methane. 4. The process of claim 3 wherein the hollow fiber membrane is a multicomponent hollow fiber membrane comprising a coating in occluding contact with a porous separation membrane comprising at least one of a polysulfone, a polyethersulfone, a polyphenylene oxide, a polyamide, a cellulose acetate, or a bromine substituted polyphenylene oxide. 5. The process of claim 4 wherein the multicomponent hollow fiber membrane comprises a coating in occluding contact with a porous separation membrane comprising a bisphenol A polysulfone. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein the multicomponent membrane has a permeability for carbon dioxide of from about 10 to about 50 x 10 6 cm3CSTP cm2 sec cmHg. 7. The process of claim 6 wherein the total gas pressure 2 at the open end of the bore is from about 0.35 to about 3.5 Kg cm 8 . The process of any of claims 1 to 7 wherein the membrane has a ratio of bore di ameter 2 length of greater than about 0.012 micron 1.

## Description
MEMBRANE GAS SEPARATION PROCESSES BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention pertains to hollow fiber membrane gas separation processes where there is at least one permeating gaseous species present which may be unduly detrimental to the utility of a polymeric hollow fiber membrane for the intended gas separation. The viability of the use of polymeric membranes for gas separation, as compared to other separation procedures such as absorption, adsorption, and liquefaction, often depends on the cost of the permeation apparatus and its operating cost. Such cost factors include energy onsumption, degree of selectivity of separation which is desired, the total pressure drop of gas compo nents through the permeation apparatus which can be tolerated in conducting the separation procedure, the size and ease of use of such permeation apparatus, and especially the useful life of membranes in the operating environment.In order for selective separation of the one or more desired components in a gaseous stream by he use of polymeric gas separation membranes to be commercially attractive, the membranes must provide an adequately selective separation of one or more desired components at a Sufficiently high flux.That is, the selective permeation.rate of the desired permeating gas species per unit of membrane surface area must be sufficiently high. Moreover, the membranes must also be capable of withstanding the environmental conditions to which they may be subjected during the separation operation, so that the useful life of membranes used to effect the separation is economically attractive Polymeric gas separation membranes are often prepared in flat film and in hollow fiber form. Flat film membranes may not be as attractive as other membrane configurations due to the need for film membranes to be supported to withstand operating conditions such as high pressure differentials and due to the overall complexity of the permeation apparatus containing flat film membranes.Membranes in the configuration of hollow fibers avoid many of the deficiencies of flat film membranes for many separation operations. Hollow fiber membranes are generally self supporting, even under operating conditions of high differential pressures, and can provide a substantially greater amount of membrane surface area per unit volume of separation apparatus than that which may be provided by flat film membranes. Thus membrane separation apparatus containing hollow fiber membranes may be attractive from the standpoint of convenience, size and reduced complexity of design.However, in or er to provide permeation apparatus which is commercially viable on an economic basis, any membrane, even if inherently capable of providing desired selectivities of separation, fluxes and strength, must also be capable of maintaining these desired properties over an extended period of time in what may be an adverse operating environment. This extended period of time is denoted as the useful life of the membrane. A particularly convenient analytical characteristic of polymeric gas permeable membranes includes the permeability of the membrane for a specific gas through the membrane. The permeability PaR of a membrane for gas a of a gas mixture through a membrane of thickness Q is the volume of gas, referred to standard temperature and pressure STP , which passes through the membrane per unit of surface area of membrane, per unit of time, per unit of differential partial pressure of the permeating species across the thickness of the membrane.One method for expressing permeabilities is cubic centimeters STP per square centimeter of membrane area per second per differential partial pressure of 1 centimeter of mercury across the membrane thickness cm3 STP cm2 sec cmHg . Unless otherwise noted, all permeabilities are reported herein at standard temperatures and pressures of 15.60C and 1 Bar, respectively.The permeabilities are reported in gas permeation units GPU , which are cm3 STP cm2 sec cmHg x To 6 thus t GPU is 1 x 106 cm3 STP cm2 sec cmHg. Another convenient relationship for expressing gas permeation characteristics of membranes is separation factor. A separation factor, e a b, for a membrane for a given pair of gases at and b is defined as the ratio of the permeability P L of a membrane of thickness L for a gas a of a gas mixture to the permeabiljty Pb t of the same membrane to gas b . In practice, separation factor with respect to a given pair of gases for a given membrane can be determined by employing numerous techniques which provide sufficient information for calculation of permeabilities for each of the gases. Several of the many techniques available for determining permeabilities and separation factors are disclosed by Hwang et.al. , Techniques ofChemistry, Volume VII, Membranes in Separations, JohnWiley Sons, 1974. at Chapter 12, pages 296 322. Measurements can be made for pure gas permeation or for blend gas permeation. However, experience has shown that the measured permeability of a membrane for a gas species is higher for pure gas permeation than for blend gas permeation. In general, it is more desirable to determine gas permeation characteristics for blend gases, since the permeabilities and separation factors more closely predict actual membrane gas separation performance characteristics. Ideally it is preferred to have a polymeric membrane with no deterioration of permeability with time. However, deterioration of permeability is generally observed, resulting in less than desirable membrane performance. Accordingly much effort has been directed to developing polymeric membrane material s with enhanced permeation stability. Effort has also been directed to determining operating environments which produce the highest permeation performance as measured in terms of permeability and separation factor, with the lowest deterioration of permeability. A particularly valuable analytical tool for evaluating the stability of polymeric membrane permeability properties is the measurement of permeability creep. Permeability creep is defined as the time rate of change of permeability of a particular gas species through a membrane. A convenient method for determining permeability creep is provided by the slope of the relationship of the logarithm of permeability of a species through the membrane as a function of the logarithm of time. See, for instance, Figure 1, which is a log log plot of permeability of a membrane of thickness Q for species i Pj , versus time satin. Experience has shown that such a relationship is conveniently approximated by a straight line whose negative slope defines permeability creep according to the following relationship, illustrated by Figure 1. Permeability CreepEMI5.1 Since units of the fractions of the logarithms cancel, permeability creep is a dimensionless number. And, if permeability diminishes with time as it usually does , permeability creep is a negative number, for instance 0.1. The permeability rate changes with time may also be expressed as an exponential function of the form Pa t 2 P a L I t2 t1 , where Pa1 L 2 is the permeability of the membrane of thickness for gas a In at time t2 Pa 1 is the permeability of the same membrane of thickness s Q for the same gas a at an earlier time nst1nn and m is the slope of a logarithmic plot of permeability versus time. The value of m represents permeability creep. Since the economic viability of membrane separation processes depends to a significant degree on the performance of the membrane system with time, permeability creep is a key indicator of the useful life of the membrane, as illustrated in the following Table I. TABLE I PERMEABILITY, P g EGPU Permeability Time in Operation Creep any elapsed time unit C rn 1 12 60 0.01 100 GPU 98 GPU 98 GPU or.03 100 93 88 0.07 100 84 75 O 10 100 78 66 0.20 200 61 44 Ths data in Table I illustrate that a membrane hav ing a permeability creep of 0,20 would be generally undesirable as compared to a membrane having a permeability creep of 0.01. That is, the economic life of a membrane having a permeability creep of 0.20 deteriorates significantly within a short time, for instan ce, by about 40 percent between time increments 1 and 12.On the other hand, the economic life of a membrane having a permeability creep of 0.01 would experience only minor deterioration in a similar time period, for instance, about 2 percent between time increments 1 and 12. Often gas mixtures for which a membrane gas separation is desired may contain one or more species which may be detrimental to the operating characteristics of the polymeric membranes, for instance, to the permeability of gases through the membrane Such species may adversely affect the polymeric membrane, for instance, by solvation, plasticization, or swelling. Often the adverse effect on the polymeric membrane may be a significant reduction in permeability, a sign,ficant reduction in strength of the membrane, or a reduction in selectivity of the membrane for one desired permeating gas over the other permeating gases. The adverse effects may be rapidly catastrophic or may be manifested in a gradual degradation of desired properties over time.Accordingly such adverse effects can often be monitored by measuring permeability creep. Depending on the particular membrane, adversely affecting species, such as ammonia, an aromatic species, or water, may be detrimental to the membrane even if the concentration, as measured in terms of partial pressure, of the adversely affecting species is relatively low. In other cases, for instance in the separation of an acid gas such as carbon dioxide or hydrogen sulfide from hydrocarbon gases such as methane, the acid gas is often present in substantial concentrations and is the predominant permeating species. Unfortunately, an acid gas, such as carbon dioxide or hydrogen sulfide, can have an adverse effect on a polymeric membrane of such material as, for instance, polysulfone.In this regard it is known that an acid gas, such as carbon dioxide, can under some conditions plasticize an otherwise rigid structure of a polymeric material such as polysulfone. membrane plasticized polymeric material is expected to deform under the stress of differentials in pressure imposed across the membrane to effect permeation. The copending patent applicatjon Serial No. attorney docket No. 36 6309 of Knieriem et.al., assigned to the assignee of this patent application, relates in part to the discovery that polymeric membranes can be successfully operated to separate adversely affecting gas species from a gaseous mixture with little permeability creep under conditions previously expected to be adverse. Such membrane separation processes comprise in part removing a permeate gas mixture at a sufficiently high rate that the partial pressure of an adverse affecting gas species at the permeate side of a membrane is maintained less than the critical partial pressure of the adverse affecting species for the membrane. Those processes allow for advantageously separating an adversely affecting species by selective permeation through a polymeric membrane which exhibits substantial permeability creep, for instance, more negative than about 0.1, when exposed to critical partial pressures of the adversely affecting species. The term critical partial pressure as used herein means the gas phase concentration which describes the relationship of the permeability creep characteristics of the polymeric membrane when exposed to potentially adversely affecting gas species. The term critical partial pressure 1 defines the gas phase concentration of an adversely affecting species at or above which the polymeric membrane will exhibit permeability creep more negative than about 0.1. Similarly, it is intended that a membrane exposed to a potentially adversely affecting species at less than the critical partial pressure will exhibit permeability creep to a substantially lesser degree, i.e., the permeability creep will generally be less negative than about 0.1.As used herein, the term critical partial pressure is intended to have no relationship to the term critical pressure, which relates to the physical constant which characterizes the pressure above which a gas cannot be liquified by a decrease in temperature. To effectively utilize membrane gas separator processes it is generally desirable to keep partial pressures of all permeating gas species at a low level to promote the highest possible permeation transport rates and, as taught by Knieriem et.al., to avoid adverse affects of critical partial pressures. With permeation processes utilizing hollow fiber membranes it is often difficult to keep bore pressure low throughout the entire length of a hollow fiber membrane. Accordingly it is difficult to keep the partial pressures of adverse ly affecting species lower than the critical partial pressure at all points along the length of the hollow fiber membrane, Often higher than desirable permeate gas pressures are required to economically utilize the permeate gas.For instance, low bore pressure often cannot be achieved simply because the permeate gas is required to be at a relatively high total pressure because. of compressor or pump suction pressure requirements for further transport of the permeated gas. In some instances hollow fiber membranes are available at certain dimensions and permeation characteristics and it may not be possible to operate at low permeate gas pressures solely because of physical dimensions of hollow fiber membranes or the intrinsic permeation properties of such membranes. That is, a low bore pressure may not be achievable simply because the permeability of an adverse affecting species is too high. In other instances it may be desirable to provide as long a length of hollow fiber membrane.as possible to achieve economies of scale in building permeators utilizing hollow fiber membranes. This can create significant problems in achieving low bore pressures because of hollow fiber membrane gas transport characteristics. When a hollow fiber membrane is used in a membrane separation process there are two distinct pressure differentials which relate to permeator performance, a bore pressure differential and a permeation pressure differential. The bore pressure differential provides driving force to cause the permeate gas mixture to flow through the bore of the hollow fiber and exit from the open end of the hollow fiber. The permeation pressure differential relates to the driving force for mass transfer of the species across the membrane and is defined as the difference in chemical potential of the species as measured at the feed side surface of the membrane and at the permeate side surface of the membrane. For gas permeation the chemical potentials are conveniently approximated by the partial pressure of a permeating gas species in the bulk gas phase contiguous to the respective membrane surface. In a permeator utilizing a bundle of elongated hollow fiber membranes the bulk gas phase on the outer feed side surface of the hollow fiber membranes often undergoes little total pressure drop.Accordingly the partial pressure of a gas species in contact with the feed side surface is easily calculated as the product of the composition of the species on the shell side and the shell side pressure. The partial pressure of the gas species in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane is similarly calculated as the product of the composition of the species in the bore and the bore side pressure which can vary significantly with the length of the hollow fiber membrane. With each increment in length of hollow fiber membrane as measured from an open end of a hollow fiber membrane the increment in bore pressure necessary to drive tte permeate gas from the bore of the hollow fiber membrane increases not only due to length but also due to incremental volumes of permeated gas. If a long enough length of hollow fiber membrane is provided the partial pressure of an adverse affecting gas species can increase to beyond the critical partial pressure. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The invention relates to a hollow fiber membrane permeation process for separating at least one gas from a feed gas mixture by permeation through a hollow fiber membrane having an outer feed side surface and a central bore, said membrane exhibiting selectivity to the permeation of said at least one gas and said hollow fiber membrane having a permeability creep more negative than about 0.1 when exposed to critical partial pressures of said at least one gas, said process comprising Ca permeating a gas mixture enriched in said at least one gas, from the outer feed side surface to the bore of said membrane, said permeating being effected by maintaining the partial pressure of said at least one gas at the outer feed side surface of said membrane higher than the partial pressure of said at least one gas in the bore of said membrane b removing a permeate gas mixture enriched in said at least one gas from the bore of said membrane wherein said membrane has a ratio of bore diameter 2 length sufficiently great that the permeate gas mixture is removed from the bore at a rate sufficiently great that the partial pressure of said at least one gas in the bore does not exceed said critical partial pressure wherein the permeability creep of the membrane is less negative than 0.1. A further aspect of the invention relates to those hollow fiber membrane permeation processes for separating from a gas mixture at least one. of en adverse affecting gas species such as carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, an aromatic hydrocarbon gas, water, ammonia, a nitrogen oxide, cyanogen, methyl mercaptan or a substituted methyl gas. A particularly preferred aspect of the invention relates to a process for separating a feed gas mixture of carbon dioxide and methane by permeation through a multicomponent hollow fiber membrane having a permeability for carbon dioxide of less than about 50 GPU wherein the total gas pressure at the open end of the bore is less than about 3.5 Kg cm2 and wherein the hollow fiber membrane. has a ratio of Cbore diameter 2 length of greater than about 0.012 micron 1. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Figure 1 graphically illustrates a typical presen a tion of permeability creep as the slope of the relation ship of the logarithm of permeability of a species through a membrane as a function of the logarithm of time. Figure 2 graphically illustrates permeate gas pressure profiles in the bore of hollow fiber membranes having various dimensions of bore diameter and length. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The process of this invention is advantageously useful in hollow fiber membrane gas separations where the gaseous mixture contacting the outer feed side surface of the hollow fiber polymeric membrane contains potentially adversely affecting gas species which may be present in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane at critical partial pressures. Such potentially adversely affecting gas species is often a desired permeating gas species. Such potentially adversely affecting gas species may be condensible within the polymeric material of the membrane and may promote significant permeability creep in the membrane by presence in the bore of the membrane at critical partial pressure. The process of this invention is useful for hollow fiber membrane gas separations where the potentially adversely affecting gas species is a gas such as water an aromatic gas ltke benzene, toluene or xylene a sulfur containing gas like hydrogen sulfide, sulfur dioxide, sulfur trioxide, carbonyl sulfide, or methyl mercaptan a nitrogen containing gas such as ammonia, a nitrogen oxide or a cyanogen gas a carbon containing gas such as carbon dioxide or other substituted methyl gases or combinations of such gases. The process of this invention is particularly advantageous for separating acid gas components such as carbon dioxide and or hydrogen sulfide from a gas mixture containing hydrocarbon gases, for instance, methane, ethane, propane, butane, etc. The polymeric hollow fiber membranes useful in the process of this invention may be isotropic or anisotropic. Anisotropic hollow fiber membranes are generally more useful for membrane gas separations. Such anisotropic hollow fiber membranes have a thin, dense layer, usually on at least one surface of the membrane, which comprises an open cellular support matrix. It is generally desirable that the thin, dense layer be on the outer surface of the anisotropic polymeric hollow fiber membranes.The preferred anisotropic polymeric hollow fiber membranes useful in this invention are multicomponent membranes comprising a coating in occluding contact with a porous separation membrane of material which exhibits selective permeation of at least one gas of the gaseous mixture over that of one or more remaining gases in the gaseous mixture. Such multicomponent membranes are described inUnited States Patent 4,230,463,.issued October 28, 1980. Other hollow fiber membranes useful in the process of this invention can be provided by a number of techniques known to those skilled in the hollow fiber membrane art. particularly useful polymers suitable for hollow fiber membranes useful in the process of this invention and procedures for preparing such membranes are set forth by Brooks et.al., in Belgian Patent 882,475 . The polymeric material comprising such membranes is preferably selected on the basis of its separation capabilities, for instance, its ability to provide the desired selectivity of separation at a suitable permeate flux while maintaining sufficient strength and chemical resistance, particularly with respect to the components of the fluid streams intended to be treated using the membrane. The selective permeation of many fluids, including gases, in many polymers has been reported. In these reported permeations, the mechanism of the separation apparently involves an interaction with the material of the membrane. Hence widely differing separation capabilities can be achieved by the use of different polymers. For instance, polyacrylonitrile permits nitrogen to permeate over ten times as quickly as methane whereas in a polysulfone membrane methane may permeate slightly more quickly than nitrogen. Typical polymers which may be suitable for making hollow fiber membranes useful in the process of this invention include substituted and unsubstituted polymers selected from polysulfones polyethersutfones poly styrenes , including styrene containing copolymers such as acrylonitrile styrene copolymers and styrenevinylbenzylhalide copolymers polycarbonates cellulosic polymers, such as cellulose acetate polyami es and polyimides polyphenylene oxides, including bromine substituted polyphenylene oxides etc. Useful polysulfones are sold under trade names such as P 1700 and P 3500 .by Union Carbide. Both commercial products are bisphenol methane derived polysulfones specifically, bisphenol A derived having a linear chain of the general formulaEMI14.1 where n, representing the degree of polymerization, is about 50 to 80. Poly arylene ether sulfones are also advantageous. Polymeric hollow fiber membranes useful in this invention are generally assembled into a permeator which allows for proper distribution of the feed gas mixture to the feed side surface of the membrane for effective separation and removal of the non permeate and permeate gases. Polymeric hollow fiber membranes are particularly attractive in that the hollow fibers are generally selfsupporting, even at relatively high differential pressures, and provide a greater amount of membrane surface area per unit volume of permeator than that which may be provided by flat film membranes Thus permeators containing hollow fiber membranes may be attractive from the standpoint of convenience, size and reduced complexity in design. commercially attractive permeators must be able to withstand the operating conditions to which they may be subjected during separation operations and should be relatively non complex and easily assemblable to facilitate manufacturing. A variety of permeator designs utilizing hollow fiber membranes have been developed for separation operations.Generally hollow fiber membranes are arranged in the form of a bundle embedded in at least one tube sheet which is sealed in a permeator shell. Among the useful designs are those disclosed by Rosenblatt in United States Patent 3,616,928 Maxwell et.all, in United States Patent 3,339,341 McLain in United States Patent 3,422,008 Caracciolo in United States Patent 3,528,553 McNamara et.al., in United States Patent 3,702 658 and King et.al., in United States Patent 4,315,819 The process of this invention is advantageously useful in separating acid gas such as carbon dioxide and or hydrogen sulfide from gas mixtures of, for instance, hydrocarbon gases such as methane, ethane, propane, and the like. Such gas mixtures are common in the petroleum and natural gas industries. For instance, in enhanced oil recovery processes utilizins carbon dioxide flooding, the casinghead gas from wellheads ofter comprises predominantly carbon dioxide and methane. It is desirable to separate these two gases, for instance, so that carbon dioxide can be reinjected for further enhanced oil recovery and so that methane can be provided for natural gas pipelines. In other instances, natural gas reservoirs often contain substantial quantities of carbon dioxide and or hydrogen sulfide which must be removed before the predominantly methane containing hydrocarbon gas can be utilized. In still a further instance, it is possible to recover substantial quantities of methane by separating the carbon dioxide and methane containing gas present in mature tandfiils, Traditionally the required separations for removing gases such as carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide have included amine scrubbing, physical absorption and cryogenic processes, among others. Membrane gas separations can provide an economically attractive alternative for such traditional processes.However, gases such as carbon dioxide and or hydrogen sulfide often adversely affect the economic life of polymeric membranes useful in such membrane separation processes, resulting in significant permeability creep of otherwise desirable polymeric membranes. By the use of the process of this invention, the membrane gas separation of acid gas species such as carbon dioxide and or hydrogen sulfide can be advantageously effected without the detrimental effects of permeability creep when the hollow fiber membrane has a ratio of bore diameter ê length sufficiently great that the partial pressure of such permeated acid gas species in the bore does not exceed the critical partial pressure of the acid gas species such that permeability creep for the polymeric membrane is maintained less negative than about 0.1. For instance, a multicompo nent hollow fiber membrane comprising a coating of polysiloxane in occluding contact with a porous anisotropic hollow fiber membrane of polysulfone can be used to separate carbon dioxide from a mixture of carbon dioxide and methane by selective permeation of the carbon dioxide. However, it has been observed that such multicomponent hollow fiber membranes will exhibit a permeabi lity creep more negative than about 0.1 when the partial pressure of permeated carbon dioxide in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane is greater than the critical partial pressure of carbon dioxide, for instance, about 2 15 Kg cm 217 psia or even lower.Moreover, a permeability creep of about 0.1 has been observed for the same multicomponent hollow fiber membrane when the partial pressure of permeated carbon dioxide in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane is at 7.03 Kg cm2 1X0 ps ia . On the other hand, when the same multicomponent hollow fiber membrane is used in a membrane separation process such that the partial pressure of permeated carbon dioxide in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane is maintained below the critical partial pressure of carbon dioxide, for instance, at 5.16 Kg cm2 73.4 psia , the membrane will exhibit a permeability creep of generally less negative than 0.1, say, about 0.02. Permeators have been prepared utilizing multicompo nent hollow fiber membranes comprising a coating of poly siloxane , e.g., Dow Corning Sylgard 184, in occluding contact with a porous anisotropic hollow fiber membrane of polysulfone Union Carbide P 3500 . A plurality of the holIow fiber membranes were gathered into an elongated bundle of generally parallel hollow fiber membranes, One end of the bundle of hollow fiber membranes was sealed in a cured epoxy resin tube shell such that the bores of the hollow fiber membranes communicated through the tube sheet. The other end of the hollow fiber membranes was plugged.The assembly of the bundle bf hollow fiber membranes and tube sheet was sealed into an elongated tubular stell shell having an inlet port and a longitudinally distant outlet port to provide axial flow of a feed gas mixture through the shell in contact with the exterior surface of the hollow fiber membranes. A port was also provided to allow permeate gas to be evacuated from the bores of the hollow fiber membranes. Such permeators were extensively operated in a variety of gas separation processes separating at least one gas from a feed gas mixture of a variety of gaseous constituents for instance hydrogen, carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen, argon, methane, water vapor, C2 C6 hydrocarbons, and the like in a variety of compositions, The membrane gas separation processes were carried out under a variety of operating conditions of temperature and pressure for instance feed gas temperatures ranging from about 1Q C and lower to about 500C and higher and feed gas pressures ranging from 7 Kg cm2 C100 psia2 to 70 Kg cm 2000 psia and higher. The membrane gas separations were also conducted under a variety of permeate gas pressures for instance from about 1 Kg cm or lower to about 70 Kg cm2 or higher.The membrane gas separations were conducted under conditions of various permeation driving force, that is, differences in chemical potential or partial pressures differential across the wall of the hollow fiber membrane. As a result of such extensive membrane gas separa tion operations a considerable body of membrane permeation data has been accumulated. Such membrane permeation data relates to the performance o multicomponent hollow fiber membranes and includes permeabilities CP It , for any of the above mentioned gas constituents i and separation factors, , which represent the ratio of permeabilities of different gas constituents. The availability of such membrane gas separation performance data assures that computer assisted simulations of hollow fiber membrane gas separations can be utilized to predict membrane gas separator performance with reasonable accuracy. Such computer assisted simulations of hollowfiber membrane gas separator utilize a number of overall membrane gas separator parameters, such as hollow fiber dimensions, for instance bore diameter, hollow fiber membrane length and total hollow fiber membrane mass transfer area feed gas compositions desired separated gas compositions and conditions, such as the desired recovery or purity of a particular species in either the permeate or non permeate gas and the like. A number of variables can be fixed and a simulation conducted to predict other variables. Such computer assisted hollow fiber membrane gas separation simulation can also provide a pressure profile of the permeating gas mixture in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane. The following examples are illustrative of such computer assisted simulations of hollow fiber membrane gas separatTon . EXAMPLE I This example demonstrates a computer assisted simulation of a membrane gas separation utilizing a permeator comprising multicomponent hollow fiber membrane to separate a gas mixture comprising carbon dioxide and methane. The hollow fiber membranes have one end open and the other end plugged and are specified at dimensions of 135 microns in bore diameter and 1.5 meters in length.The membrane permeation properties are arbitrarily specified as 5Q IL of 5 2 GPU and PCH Q of 3.3 GPU 2 The simulation summarized in Table II predicts that a feed gas mixture of 80.2 mole percent carbon dioxide, 11.5 mole percent methane can be separated with 95 percent recovery of the total carbon dioxide in the permeate gas stream at a purity of 94.3 percent carbon dioxide. The simulation also predicts that the permeate gas pressure profile in the bore of the hollow fiber membranes rises from 3.5 K g cn 2. At the open end of the bore to 8.12 Kg cm2 at the plugged end of the fiber. This pressure profile is further illustrated by curve A ofFigure 2. TABLE IT Membrane Gas Separation Simulation Feed Gas Temperature 490C 120eF Pressure 43 Kg cm2 610 psia Composition C02 80.2 mole percent CH4 11.5 mole percent other gases 8.3 mole percent Permeate Gas Composition C02 94.3 mole percent CH4 3.2 mole percent other gases 2.5 mole percent C03 Recovery in Permeate 95.2 percentNon Permeate Gas Composition C02 20.0 mole percent CH4 47.0 mole percent other gases 33.0 mole percentBore Eìt Pressure of Permeate 2Gas 3.5 Kg cmê 50 psia Hollow Fiber Membrane Dimensions Bore Diameter 135 microns Length 1.5 metersMembrane Performance Parameters P Z CO2 50 GPU CO2 15 CH4 Permeate Gas Pressure Profile in Bore Kg cmê Distance From Open End of Bore meters 0 0.25 0.5 0.75 1.0 1.25 1.5 3,5 5.6 6.8 7.5 7.9 8.1 8.2 EXAMPLE II A computer assisted simulation of hollow fiber membrane gas separation of Example I was repeated with the hollow fiber membrane length increased to 3.0 meters 10 feet .Approximately the same permeate gas compos tion and carbon dioxide recovery were predicted. However the total permeate gas pressure drop in the bore of a the hollow fiber membrane increased to 10.6 Kg cm 151 psia . The predicted permeate gas pressure profile in the bore of the hollow fiber m e mbr a e is illustrated as curve B in Figure 2 and is shown in Table III. TABLE III Permeate Gas Pressure Profile in Bore 2 Kg cm Distance From Open End of Bore meters 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 8.8 11.2 12,7 13.6 14.1 14.1 This simulation illustrates that permeate gas pressure in the bore of this longer length of hollow fiber membrane increases significantly as compared to the pressures in the bore of the shorter length of hollow fiber membrane illustrated in Example I. Since carbon dioxide concentration in the bore is about 95 percent, the partial pressure of carbon dioxide in the bore is about 95 percent of the total pressure in the bore as represented by the profile in Table II and curveB of Figure 2. Thus it can be expected that the partial pressure of carbon dioxide in the bore can exceed a critical partial pressure of carbon dioxide for the membrane. Accordingly it is expected that. significant portion of the length of the hollow fiber membrane would experience adverse permeability creep more negative than about 0.1 under conditions of the membrane gas separation simulated. EXAMPLE III The computer assisted simulation of hollow fiber membrane gas separation of Example II was repeated with the hollow fiber membrane bore diameter increased to 225 microns. Approximately the same permeate gas composition and carbon dioxide recovery were predicted.However the total permeate gas pressure drop in the bore of the hollow fiber membranes. was significantly decreased to about 3.0 Kg cm2 42 psia . The predicted permeate gas pressure profile in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane is illustrated as curve C in Figure 2 and shown in Table IV. This simulation illustrates that the permeate gas pressure profile in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane can be significantly reduced by increasing the bore of the hollow fiber membrane. Accordingly the partial pressure of carbon dioxide in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane can be expected to be less than a critical partial pressure of carbon dioxide for the membrane gas separation simulated.Thus it is expected that the hollow fiber membrane would not be adversely affected by the levels of carbon dioxide in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane and consequently the hollow fiber membrane would not experience adverse permeability creep more negative than about 0.1 for the membrane gas separation simulated. TABLE IV Permeate Gas Pressure Profile in Bore Kg cm2 Distance From Open End of Bore meters 0 0.5 1.0 0 1.5 1.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.8 5.6 6.0 6.3 6.4 6.5 EXAMPLE IV The computer assisted simulation of hollow fiber membrane gas separation of Example lII was repeated with the hollow fiber membrane length increased to 6.0 meters.Approximately the same permeate gas composition and carbon dioxide recovery were predicted. However the total permeate gas pressure drop in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane was increased to 7.4 Kg cm2 105 psia . The predicted permeate gas pressure profile in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane is illustrated as curve D in Figure 2 and shown in Table V. TABLE V Permeate Gas Pressure Profile in Bore Kg cm2l Distance From Open End of Bore meters 0 e 1 2 3 4 5 6 3.5 7.8 8.8 9.9 1 2.5 10.8 10.9 This simulation, together with the simulation ofExample II, illustrates that permeate gas pressure in the bore increases with the length of hollow fiber membrane utilized. Moreover this simulation indicates that carbon dioxide partial pressure in most of the length of 2 the bore would exceed 7Q Kg cm C100 psia which is near the range o f the critical partial pressure of carbon dioxide for the hollow fiber membrane utilized. The above four examples illustrate that as the hollow fiber membrane dimensions of bore diameter and length can be manipulated to achieve permeate gas pressure profiles to avoid any tendency for the partial pressure of adversely affected species in the bore of the hollow fiber to exceed critical partial pressures of the adverse affecting species for the membrane utilized.It is often desirable to utilize as long a length of hollow fiber membrane as possible to achieve those economies of scale in manufacturing hollow fiber membranes that are attendant with increasing length of hollow fiber membranes. The above examples further illustrate that such economies can be achieved by utilizing hollow fiber membranes with a sufficiently large bore diameter such that the total pressure in the bore of the hollow fiber membrane can be reduced to a level where the partial pressure of an adverse affecting species will not exceed a critical partial pressure of the adverse affecting species for the membrane utilized. EXAMPLE V Further computer assisted simulation of membrane gas separation, as in Examples I through IV, was conducted with bore diameter of 135, 180, 225 and 250 microns and hollow fiber. lengths of 1.5, 3.0 and 6.0 meters 5, 10 and 20 feet . The total pressure drop of permeate gas in the bore of the hollow fiber membranes as predicted is shown in Table VI. TABLE VI Bore Pressure Drop of Permeate Gas Kg cm Bore Holl ow Fiber Membrane Length metersI Diameter micronsi 1.5 3.0 6.0 135 4.6 10.5 19.7 180 2.0 5.4 12.0 225 0.9 3.0 7.3 250 0.7 2.2 6.0 Since the bore exit pressure must be maintained at some reasonable working pressure, a bore exit pressure of 3.5 Kg cm2 CSO psia can be used. to illustrate a maximum permeate gas pressure in the bore by adding a 3.5 Kg cm to the values of Table VI. This maximum permeate gas pressure is illustrated in Table VII. TABLE VII Maximum Permeate Gas Pressure Kg cm2 Bore Hollow Fiber Membrane Length meters Diameter microns 1.5 3.0 6.0 t35 8.1 14.0 23.2 180 5.5 8.9 15.5 225 4.4 6.5 10.8 250 4e2 5.7 9.5 The partial pressure of carbon dioxide in the permeate gas is about 0.95 times the total permeate gas pressure at any point along the length of the hollow fiber membrane. Experimental work has indicated that the critical partial pressure of carbon dioxide for the membrane utilized in the simulations of Examples I through V may be about 7.0 Kg cm2 100 psia . Arcordingly to avoid the adverse effects of permeability creep more negative than about 0.1, it is desirable to effect a membrane gas separation similar to that simulated only with those hollow fiber membranes with dimensions that would result in a maximum permeate gas pressure less than about 7.0 Kg cm2 100 psia . TABLE VIII Hollow Fiber Membrane Dimensions Characterization Bore Diameter 2 Length micron 1 Bore Hollow Fiber Membrane Length meters Diameter tmicrons 1.5 3.0 6.0 135 0.012 0.006 0.003 180 0.021 0.011 0.005 225 0.033 0.016 0.083 250 0.040 0.020 0.010 A comparison of the hollow fiber membrane dimension characterization of bore.diameter ê length in TableVIII and the maximum permeate gas pressure in Table VII illustrate that for a membrane gas separation of a feed gas comprising carbon dioxide and methane utilizing the multicomponent hollow fiber membrane as illustrated inExample I that adverse effects of permeability creep promoted by critical partial pressures of carbon dioxide can be avoided by selecting hollow fiber membranes having a ratio of bore RTI ID 27.4 diameter ê length of diameter ê length 0.012 1 microns