# Triazole and imidazole compounds, process for their preparation and their use as fungicides and plant growth regulators, and intermediates for their synthesis.

## Claims
1. Compounds having the general formula I EMI46.1 and stereoisomers thereof, wherein R1 is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl, or aryl or aralkyl both optionally substituted with halogen, nitro, alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, phenyl, phenoxy, halophenyl, or haloalkoxy groups R2 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aralkyl or acyl R3 and R4, which may be the same or different, are hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, or optionally substituted aryl W is N or CH X is Co2R5 C0NR6R7, CN, CHO, 4,4 dimethyl n 2 oxazolin 2 yl, or 4,4,6 trimethyl 5,6 dihydro 1,3 oxazin 2 yl in which 7 R5, R6 and R , which may be the same or different, are hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, optionally substituted aralkyl, alkenyl, or optionally substituted aryl and their acid addition salts and metal complexes. 2. Compounds having the formulaEMI46.2 wherein R1 is alkyl having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or phenyl optionally substituted with halogen, phenoxy, phenyl, or alkyl, haloalkyl or alkoxy having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms R3 is hydrogen, alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms or phenyl and X is COOR5 or CONR6R7 wherein R5 is alkyl or aminoalkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or phenyl and R6 and R7, which may be the same or different, are hydrogen, alkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl or phenyl opti z y substituted with halogen or alkyl or alkoxy having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or R6 and R7 together with the adjacent N atom make up a morpholine ring. 3. Compounds as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein, when any of RÚ, R2, R31 R4 R5 R6 and R7 is alkyl, it is a straight or branched chain alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, especially a methyl, ethyl, propyl n or iso propyl or butyl n sec , iso or t butyl group. 4. Compounds as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein, when any of R11 R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, or R7 is alkenyl or alkynyl it is allyl or propargyl respectively and when any of R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6 or R7 is cycloalkyl it is cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl. 5. Compounds as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein, when any of R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6 and R7, as appropriate, is optionally substituted aryl or aralkyl it is phenyl or benzyl both optionally substituted with halogen eg. fluorine, chlorine or bromine , C15 alkyl eg. methyl, ethyl, propyl n or iso propyl or butyl n , sec , iso or t butyl , C14 alkoxy eg. methoxy or ethoxy , haloalkoxy eg. trifluorcmethoxy , haloalkyl eg. trifluoromethyl , nitro, phenyl or phenoxy. 6. Compounds as claimed in claim 4 wherein any of R1 to R7, as appropriate, is phenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 chloro phenyl, 2,4 or 2,6 dichlorophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 fluorophenyl, 2,4 difluorophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 bromo phenyl, 2 chloro 4 fluorophenyl, 2 chloro 6 fluoro phenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 methoxyphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 ethoxy phenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 nitrophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 methyl phenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 t butylphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 tri fluoromethylphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 phenoxyphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 phenylphenyl 2 , 3 or 4 biphenylyl , 2 chloro 4 methylphenyl, or 2 chloro 4 methoxyphenyl or benzyl or a corresponding substituted benzyl group. 7. The compound of structural formulaEMI48.1 8. A process for preparing the compounds of the invention of general formula I EMI49.1 wherein X, W, R1, R3 and R4 are as defined above and R2 is hydrogen, which comprises reacting epoxides of general formula II EMI49.2 wherein X, R1, R3 and R4 are as defined above, with 1,2,4 triazole or with imidazole, each in the presence of an acid binding agent or in the form of one of its alkali metal salts in a convenient solvent such as dimethylformamide or acetonitrile. 9. A process according to claim 8 wherein a epoxides II wherein X is C02R5 or CONR6R7 and R5, R6 and R7 are as defined above are prepared by treating acid halides of general formula III EMI50.1 wherein R1, R3 and R4 are as defined above and Z is a chlorine, bromine or iodine atom, with alcohols of general formula R50H plus a suitable base, or with amines of general formula R6R7NH, respectively the acid halides of formula III being themselves prepared by halogenation of the corresponding acids of general formula IV EMI50.2 b epoxides II wherein X is C02R5 and R5 2 is as defined above, are prepared by epoxidation of unsaturated esters of general formula V EMI51.1 wherein R1, R3, R4 and R8 are as defined above, using, for example, a peracid such as metachloroperbenzoic acid or basic hydrogen peroxide c epoxides II are prepared by treating halides of general formula VI EMI51.2 wherein R11 X and Z are as defined above, with aldehydes or ketones of general formula VII EMI51.3 wherein R3 and R4 are as defined above, under basic conditions d epoxides II wherein X is CONH2 or CN are made by treatment of silylated cyanohydrins of general formula VIII EMI52.1 wherein R1, R3, R4 and Z are as defined above, with a suitable acid, the silylated cyanohydrins VIII themselves being conveniently made by treatment of A halo ketones of general formula IX EMI52.2 wherein R1, R3, R4 and Z are as defined above, with trimethylsilyl cyanide and, if necessary, a catalyst, for example zinc iodide or e epoxides 11 wherein X isEMI52.3 and R3 R4 H are prepared by treating the ketones of general formula X EMI53.1 wherein X EMI53.2 with dimethyl oxosulphonium methylide or dimethyl sulphonium methylide using methods set out in the literature. 10. A process for preparing the compounds of the invention of general formula I EMI53.3 wherein X, W, R1, R3 and R4 are as defined in claim 1 and wherein R2 is other than hydrogen which comprises subjecting compounds wherein R2is hydrogen to successive treatment with a base preferably sodium hydride and a suitable alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, or acyl halide preferably chloride, bromide, or iodide in a suitable solvent such as dimethylformamide or tetrahydro furan. 11. A fungicidal, or plant growth regulating composition comprising a compound of general formula I as defined in any of claims 1 to 7 or a salt or complex thereof, and a carrier or diluent. 12. A method of regulating the growth of plants, which comprises applying to the plant, to seed of the plant, or to the locus of the plant or seed, a compound, or a salt or complex thereof, as defined in any of claims 1 to 7 or a composition as defined in claim 11. 13. A method of combating fungal diseases in a plant, which method comprises applying to the plant, to seed of the plant or to the locus of the plant or seed, a compound, or a salt or complex thereof, as defined in any of claims 1 to 7 or a composition as defined in claim 11. 14. The compounds of formulae II , III , IV , VIII , and X as defined.

## Description
HETEROCYCLIC COMPOUNDS This invention relates to triazole and imidazole compounds useful as fungicides, to a process for preparing them, to fungicidal compositions containing them, and to methods of using them to combat fungi, especially fungal infections in plants and to regulate plant growth. The invention provides a compound having the general formula I EMI1.1 and stereoisomers thereof, wherein R1 is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl, or aryl or aralkyl, both optionally substituted with halogen, nitro, alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, phenyl, phenoxy, halophenyl, or haloalkoxy groups R2 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aralkyl or acyl R3 and R4, which may be the same or different, are hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, or optionally substituted aryl W is N or CH X is Co2R5 CONR6R7, CN, CHO, 4,4 dimethyl ê oxazolin 2 yl, or 4,4,6 trimethyl 5,6 dihydro 1,3 oxazin 2 yl in which R5, R6 and R71 which may be the same or different, are hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, optionally substituted aralkyl, alkenyl, or optionally substituted aryl and their acid addition salts and metal complexes. The compounds have fungicidal activity and plant growth regulating activity. In a further aspect the invention provides compounds having the formulaEMI2.1 wherein R1 is alkyl having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or phenyl optionally substituted with halogen, phenoxy, phenyl, or alkyl, haloalkyl or alkoxy having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms R3 is hydrogen, alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms or phenyl and X is COOR5 or CONR6R7 whereinR5 is alkyl or aminoalkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or phenyl and R6 and R71 which may be the same or different, are hydrogen, alkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl or phenyl optionally substituted with halogen or alkyl or alkoxy having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or R6 and R7 together with the adjacent N atom make up a morpholine ring. The compounds of the invention contain at least one chiral centre. Such compounds are generally obtained in the form of isomeric mixtures. However, these and other mixtures can be separated into the individual isomers by methods known in the art. The alkyl groups may be straight or branched chain groups having 1 to 6, eg. 1 to 4, carbon atoms examples are methyl, ethyl, propyl n or iso propyl and butyl nsec , iso or t butyl . Cycloalkyl groups may be cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl. The alkenyl groups are preferably allyl, and the alkynyl groups are preferably propargyl. Examples of suitable substituents for the aryl and aralkyl groups, which are preferably phenyl and benzyl, are halogen eg. fluorine, chlorine1 or bromine , C1 5 alkyl L eg. methyl, ethyl, propyl n or iso propyl and butyl n , sec , iso or t butyl , C14 alkoxy eg. methoxy or ethoxy , haloalkoxy eg. trifluoromethoxy , haloalkyl eg. trifluoromethyl , nitro, phenyl and phenoxy. The phenyl ring may be, for example, unsubstituted or substituted with 1, 2 or 3 ring substituents as defined above. The phenyl group may have a single ring substituent in the 2 , 3 or 4 position.Examples of these groups are phenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 chlorophenyl, 2,4 or 2,6dichlorophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 fluorophenyl, 2,4difluorophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 bromophenyl, 2 chloro 4fluorophenyl, 2 chloro 6 fluorophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4methoxyphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 ethoxyphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4nitrophenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 methylphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 tbutylphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 trifluoromethylphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 phenoxyphenyl, 2 , 3 or 4 phenylphenyl 2 , 3 or 4biphenylyl , 2 chloro 4 methylphenyl, and 2 chloro 4methoxyphenyl. Heterocyclyl groups may be, for example, thienyl, pyridyl, or furyl. The acyl group is preferably acetyl or propionyl. A particularly preferred compound according to the invention is that having the formulaEMI3.1 No. 7 of TableI below The salts can be salts with inorganic or organic acids eg. hydrochloric, nitric, sulphuric, acetic, 4toluenesulphonic or oxalic acid. Suitably the metal complex is one including, as the metal, copper, zinc, manganese or iron. It preferably has the general formula EMI4.1 wherein W, X, R1, R2, R3, and R4, are as defined above, M is a metal, A is an anion eg. a chloride, bromide, iodide, nitrate, sulphate or phosphate anion , p is 2 or 4, y is O or an integer of 1 to 12, and m is an integer consistent with valency. Examples of the compounds of the invention are shown in Table 1. These conform to formula I. EMI5.1 TABLE I EMI5.2 COMPOUND SEP MELTING tb SEP NO SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP X SEP W SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 1 SEP 4 Cl C6H4 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP N SEP 104 105 tb SEP 2 SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP N SEP 113 114 tb SEP 3 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP N SEP 140 tb SEP 4 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH2 CH3 2NH2 SEP N SEP 117 120 tb SEP 5 SEP 4 F C6H4 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP N SEP 63 65 tb SEP 6 SEP 4 Cl C6H4 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CONH2 SEP N SEP 192 193 tb SEP 7 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH3 SEP N SEP 183 184 tb SEP 8 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CON C2H5 2 SEP N SEP 157 158 tb SEP 9 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2 CH2 3CH3 SEP N SEP 92 93 tb SEP 10 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH CH3 CH2 2CH3 SEP N tb 4,4 dimethyl ê oxazolin 2 yl EMI6.1 TABLE I Cont EMI6.2 COMPOUND SEP MELTING tb SEP NO SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP X SEP W SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 11 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2C2H5 SEP N SEP 125 126 tb SEP 12 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH2CH2CH3 SEP N SEP 120 121 tb SEP 13 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2C CH3 3 SEP N SEP 120 121 tb SEP 14 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH CH3 2 SEP N SEP 148 149 tb SEP 15 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2 C10H21 n SEP N tb SEP 16 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CON C6H5 2 SEP N tb SEP 17 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CON O SEP N SEP 185 188 tb SEP 18 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CONH 2 Cl 4 CH3 C6H4 SEP N SEP glass tb SEP 19 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2 4 C6H5 C6H4 SEP N tb SEP 20 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CONH 4 CH30 C6H4 SEP N SEP glass tb SEP 21 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CONH 4 Cl C6H4 SEP N SEP glass tb TABLE I Cont EMI7.1 COMPOUND SEP MELTING tb SEP NO SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP X SEP W SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 22 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CONH2 SEP N SEP 235 SEP decomp. tb SEP 23 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH2CH CH3 CH2CH3 SEP N SEP Oil SEP tb SEP 24 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH2CH CH3 2 SEP N SEP Gum tb SEP 25 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2C6H11 SEP ch SEP N SEP 111 113 tb SEP 26 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2C5H9 SEP cp SEP N SEP 89 92 tb SEP 27 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP COCH CH3 C2H5 SEP N SEP 73 80 tb SEP 28 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH2CCl3 SEP N SEP 74 75 tb SEP 29 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2C6H5 SEP N SEP glass tb SEP 30 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CO2CH3 SEP N tb TABLE I Cont EMI8.1 COMPOUND SEP MELTING tb SEP NO SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP X SEP W SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 31 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP C6H5 SEP H SEP CO2CH3 SEP N tb SEP 32 SEP CH3 3C SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH2CH2CH3 SEP N tb SEP 33 SEP 4 CH3O C6H4 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH2CH2CH3 SEP N tb SEP 34 SEP 2,4 di Cl C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH2CH2CH3 SEP N SEP 62 63 tb SEP 35 SEP 2 Cl 4 CH3 C6H3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH3 SEP N SEP 161 162 tb SEP 36 SEP 4 C6H5 C6H4 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CO2CH3 SEP N SEP 130 131 tb mixture of diastereoisomers ch cyclohexyl cp cyclopentyl The compounds of the invention of general formula I EMI9.1 wherein X, W, RÚ, R and R4 are as defined above andR2 is hydrogen, can be prepared by treatment of epoxides of general formula II EMI9.2 wherein X, R1, R3 and R4 are as defined above, with 1,2,4 triazole or with imidazole, each in the presence of an acid binding agent or in the form of one of its alkali metal salts in a convenient solvent such as dimethylformamide or acetonitrile. Epoxides II wherein X is C02R5 or CONR6R7, R5, R6 and R7 being as defined above, can be prepared by treating acid halides of general formula III EMI9.3 wherein R1, R3 and R4 are as defined above and Z is a chlorine, bromine, or iodine atom, with alcohols of general formula R5OH plus a suitable base, or amines of general formula R6R7NH, respectively. Acid halides III can be prepared from the corresponding acids of general formula IV EMI10.1 wherein R1, R3 and R4 are as defined above, by standard methods described in the chemical literature see, for example, P J Beeby, Tetrahedron Letters, 1977, 3379 AL Wilds and C H Shunk, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1948, 2427 . Acids IV can be made by successive epoxidation and hydrolysis, in one flask if required, of ss unsaturated esters of general formula V EMI10.2 wherein R1, R3 and R4 are as defined above and R8 is an alkyl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, or aryl group, using, for example, hydrogen peroxide and aqueous sodium hydroxide in a convenient solvent such as an alcohol. , Unsaturated esters V can be prepared by standard methods described in the chemical literature. Alternatively, epoxides II wherein X is CO2R51 R5 being as defined above, can be prepared directly by epoxidation of unsaturated esters of general formula V , using, for example, a peracid such as metachloroperbenzoic acid or basic hydrogen peroxide. Alternatively, epoxides II can be prepared by treating halides of general formula VI EMI11.1 wherein R1, X and Z are as defined above, with aldehydes or ketones of general formula VII EMI11.2 wherein R3 and R4 are as defined above, under basic conditions Darzen s reaction see, for example,S Gladiali and F Soccolini, Synth. Commun., 1982, 12, 355 R H Hunt et al., Org. Synth., Coll. Vol. 4, 459 D MBurness, Org. Synth., Coll. Vol. 4, 649 . Halides VI and aldehydes or ketones VII can be made by standard methods described in the chemical literature. In an alternative approach, epoxides II wherein X is CONH2 or CN can be made by treatment of silylated cyanohydrins of general formula VIII EMI12.1 wherein R1, R31 R4 and Z are as defined above, with a suitable acid. The silylated cyanohydrins VIII are conveniently made from halo ketones of general formula IX EMI12.2 wherein R1, R3, R4 and Z are as defined above, by treatment with trimethylsilyl cyanide with a catalyst, for example, zinc iodide, if required see, for example, P GGassman and J J Talley, Tetrahedron Letters, 1978, 3773 . alpha Halo ketones IX can be made by standard methods described in the chemical literature. Epoxides II wherein X EMI12.3 and R3 R4 H can be prepared by treating the ketones of general formula X EMI13.1 wherein X EMI13.2 with dimethyl oxosulphonium methylide Corey andChaykovsky, J. Amer. Chem. Soc, 1965, 87, 1353 or dimethyl sulphonium methylide Corey and Chaykovsky, J.Amer. Chem. Soc., 1962, 84, 3782 using methods set out in the literature. The ketones of general formula X wherein X EMI13.3 can be prepared by oxidising the compounds of general formula XI R1 CH2 X XI wherein X EMI14.1 by methods set out in the literature see, for example, J FHansen and Su Wang, J. Org. Chem., 1976, 41, 3635 3637 . The compounds of general formula XI wherein X EMI14.2 can be prepared by a variety of methods known in the literature see, for example, A I Meyers and D L TempleJr., J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1970, 92, 6644 and 6646, and A IMeyers et al., J .Org. Chem., 1973, 38, 36 . Compounds of general formula I wherein R2 is not hydrogen can be prepared from the corresponding compounds wherein Rê is hydrogen by successive treatment with a base preferably sodium hydride and a suitable alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, or acyl halide preferably chloride, bromide, or iodide in a suitable solvent such as dimethyl formamide or tetrahydro furan. The salts and metal complexes of the compounds of general formula I can be prepared from the latter by known methods. For example, the complexes can be made by reacting the uncomplexed compound with a metal salt in a suitable solvent. The compounds, salts and metal complexes are active fungicides, particularly against the diseases Piricularia oryzae on ricePuccinia recondita, Puccinia striiformis and other rusts on wheat1 Puccinia hordei, Puccinia striiformis and other rusts on barley, and rusts on other hosts eg. coffee, apples, vegetables and ornamental plantsPlasmopara viticola on vinesErysiphe graminis powdery mildew on barley and wheat and other powdery mildews on various hosts such asSphaerotheca fuliginea on cucurbits eg. cucumber ,Podosphaera leucotricha on apples and Uncinula necator on vinesHelminthosporium spp. and Rhynchosporium spp. on cerealsCercospora arachidicola on peanuts and other Cercospora species on for example sugar beet, bananas and soya beansBotrytis cinerea grey mould on tomatoes, strawberries, vines and other hostsPhytophthora infestans late blight on tomatoesVenturia inaequalis scab on apples Some of the compounds have also shown a broad range of activities against fungi in vitro. They have activity against various post harvest diseases on fruit eg. Penicillium digatatum and italicum on oranges andGloeosporium musarum on bananas . Further some of the compounds are active as seed dressings against Fusarium spp., Septoria spp., Tilletia spp. ie. bunt, a seed borne disease of wheat , Ustilago spp., Helminthosporium spp. on cereals, Rhizoctonia solani on cotton and Corticium sasakii on rice. The compounds can move acropetally in the plant tissue.Moreover, the compounds can be volatile enough to be active in the vapour phase against fungi on thePlant. They also have plant growth regulating activity. The compounds are also useful for the treatment of candidiasis and human dermatophyte infections. The compounds may be used as such for fungicidal purposes but are more conveniently formulated into compositions for such usage. The invention thus further provides a fungicidal composition comprising a compound of general formula I as hereinbefore defined, or a salt or metal complex, thereof and, optionally, a carrier or diluent. The invention also provides a method of combating fungi, which comprises applying to a plant, to seed of a plant or to the locus of a plant or seed, a compound, or a salt, metal complex thereof, as hereinbefore defined, or a composition containing the same. The invention also provides a method of regulating the growth of plants, which comprises applying to the plant, to seed of the plant, or to the locus of the plant or seed, a compound, or a salt or metal complex thereof as hereinbefore defined, or a composition containing the same. The plant growth regulating effects of the compounds are manifested as, for example, by a stunting or dwarfing effect on the vegetative growth of woody and herbaceous mono and di cotyledonous plants. Such stunting or dwarfing may be useful, for example, in peanuts, cereals such as wheat and barley, oil seed rape, field beans, sunflowers, potatoes and soya bean where reduction in stem height, with or without further advantageous effects such as stem strengthening, thickening and shortening, internode shortening, increased buttress root formation and more erect stem and leaf orientation, may reduce the risk of lodging and may also permit increased amounts of fertiliser to be applied. The stunting of woody species is useful in controlling the growth of undergrowth under power lines etc. Compounds which induce stunting or dwarfing may also be useful in modifying the stem growth of sugar cane thereby increasing the concentration of sugar in the cane at harvest in sugar cane, the flowering and ripening may be controllable by applying the compounds. Stunting of peanuts can assist in harvesting. Growth retardation of grasses can help maintenance of grass swards. Examples of suitable grasses are Stenotaphrum secundatum St. Augustine grass ,Cynosurus cristatus, Lolium multiflorum and perenne,Agrostis tenuis, Cynodon dactylon Bermuda grass , Dactylis glomerata, Festuca spp. eg. Festuca rubra and Poa spp. eg. Poa pratense . The compounds may stunt grasses without significant phytotoxic effects and without deleteriously affecting the appearance particularly the colour of the grass this makes such compounds attractive for use on ornamental lawns and on grass verges. They may also have an effect on flower head emergence in, for example,grasses. The compounds can also stunt weed species present in the grasses examples of such weed species are sedges eq. Cyperus spp. and dicotyledonous weeds eg.daisy, plantain, knotweed, speedwell, thistle, docks and ragwort . The growth of non crop vegetation eg. weeds or cover vegetation can be retarded thus assisting in the maintenance of plantation and field crops. In fruit orchards, particularly orchards subject to soil erosion, the presence of grass cover is important. However excessive grass growth requires substantial maintenance. The compounds of the invention could be useful in this situation as they could restrict growth without killing the plants which would lead to soil erosion at the same time the degree of competition for nutrients and water by the grass would be reduced and this could result in an increased yield of fruit.In some cases, one grass species may be stunted more than another grass species this selectivity could be useful, for example, for improving the quality of a sward by preferential suppression of the growth of undesirable species. The dwarfing may also be useful in miniaturising ornamental, household, garden and nursery plants eg.poinsettias, chrysanthemums, carnations, tulips and daffodils . As indicated above, the compounds can also be used to stunt woody species. This property can be used to control hedgerows or to shape or reduce the need for pruning, of fruit trees eg. apples, pears, cherries, peaches, vines etc . Some coniferous trees are not significantly stunted by the compounds so the compounds could be useful in controlling undesirable vegetation in conifer nurseries. The plant growth regulating effect may as implied above manifest itself in an increase in crop yield or in an ability in orchards and other crops to increase fruit set, pod set and grain set. In the potato, vine control in the field and inhibition of sprouting in the store may be possible. Other plant growth regulating effects caused by the compounds include alteration of leaf angle and changes in leaf morphology both of which may permit increased light interception and utilization and promotion of tillering in monocotyledonous plants. Improved light interception is of value in all major world crops, eg. wheat, barley, rice, maize, soya, sugarbeet, potatoes, plantation crops and orchard crops. The leaf angle effect may be useful for example in altering the leaf orientation of, for example, potato crops thereby letting more light into the crops and inducing an increase in photosynthesis and tuber weight.By increasing tillering in monocotyledonous crops eg.rice , the number of flowering shoots per unit area may be increased thereby increasing the overall grain yield of such crops. In addition better control and modificaticn of hierarchical relationships is possible both in vegetative and reproductive stages of monocotyledonous and dicotyledenous plant growth, especially in cereals such as wheat, barley, rice and maize, whereby the number of flowering shoots per unit area may be increased and the size distribution of grains within the ear may be modified in such a way as to increase yield. In the treatment of rice plants, or rice crops the invention compounds can be applied, eg. as granules or a granular formulation, for example as slow release granules, to nursery boxes, paddy water and other like cultivation loci and media.In grass swards, especially amenity grass, an increase in tillering could lead to a denser sward which may result in increased resilience in wear and to increased yields and better quality of forage grass, eg. improved digestability and palatability. The treatment of plants with the compounds can lead to the leaves developing a darker green colour. In dicotyledonous plants such as soyabean and cotton, there may be promotion of sideshooting. The compounds may inhibit, or at least delay, the flowering of sugar beet and thereby may increase sugar yield or otherwise modify the flowering patterns in many other crops. They may also reduce the size of sugar beet without reducing significantly the sugar yield thereby enabling an increase in planting density to be made.Similarly in other root crops eg. turnip, swede, mangold, parsnip, beetroot, yam and cassava it may be possible to increase the planting density. The compounds could be useful in restricting the vegetative growth of cotton thereby leading to an increase in cotton yield. Crop yields may also be increased by improvement of the harvest index ie. the harvested yield as a proportion of the total dry matter produced by altering dry matter partitioning. This applies to all the aforementioned root, pod, cereal, tree, plantation and orchard crops. The compounds may be useful in rendering plants resistant to stress since the compounds can delay the emergence of plants grown from seed, shorten stem height and delay flowering these properties could be useful in preventing frost damage in countries where there is significant snow cover in the winter since then the treated plants would remain below snow cover during the cold weather. Further the compounds may cause drought or cold resistance in certain plants. When applied as seed treatments at low rates the compounds can have a growth stimulating effect on plants. In carrying out the plant growth regulating method of the invention, the amount of compound to be applied to regulate the growth of plants will depend upon a number of factors, for example the particular compound selected for use, and the identity of the plant species whose growth is to be regulated. However, in general an application rate of 0.1 to 15, preferably 0.1 to 5, kg per hectare is used. With the use of biodegradable polymeric slow release granules rates of 1 to 10g per hectare are feasible whilst electrodynamic spraying techniques may also deploy lower rates of application. However, on certain plants even application rates within these ranges may give undesired phytotoxic effects. Routine tests may be necessary to determine the best rate of application of a specific compound for any specific purpose for which it is suitable. The compounds may be used as such for fungicidal or plant growth regulating purposes but are more conveniently formulated into compositions for such usage.The invention thus provides a fungicidal or plant growth regulating composition comprising a compound of general formula I as hereinbefore defined, or a salt or metal complex thereof and, optionally, a carrier or diluent. The invention also provides a method of combating fungi, which comprises applying to a plant, to seed of a plant, or to the locus of the plant or seed, a compound, or salt or metal complex thereof as hereinbefore defined or a composition containing the same. The invention also provides a method of regulating plant growth, which comprises applying to the plant, to seed of a plant or to the locus of a plant or seed, a compound, or a salt or metal complex thereof, as hereinbefore defined, or a composition combining the same. In the foregoing process the following compounds ofTable I are especially useful compounds Nos. 2, 3, 7, 24, 26 and 27. The compounds, salts, metal complexes, ethers and esters can be applied in a number of ways, for example they can be applied, formulated or unformulated, directly to the foliage of a plant, or they can be applied also to bushes and trees, to seeds or to other medium in which plants, bushes or trees are growing or are to be planted, or they can be sprayed on, dusted on or applied as a cream or paste formulation, or they can be applied as a vapour, or as slow release granules. Application can be to any part of the plant, bush or tree, for example to the foliage, stems, branches or roots, or to soil surrounding the roots, or to the seed before it is planted or to the soil generally, to paddy water or to hydroponic culture systems. The invention compounds may also be injected into plants or trees and they may also be sprayed onto vegetation using electrodynamic spraying techniques. The term plant as used herein includes seedlings, bushes and trees. Furthermore, the fungicidal method of the invention includes preventative, protectant, prophylactic and eradicant treatment. The compounds are preferably used for agricultural and horticultural purposes in the form of a composition. The type of composition used in any instance will depend upon the particular purpose envisaged. The compositions may be in the form of dusting powders or granules comprising the active ingredient and a solid diluent or carrier, for example fillers such as kaolin, bentonite, kieselguhr, dolomite, calcium carbonate, talc, powdered magnesia, Fuller s earth, gypsum, Hewitt s earth, diatomaceous earth and China clay. Such granules can be preformed granules suitable for application to the soil without further treatment. These granules can be made either by impregnating pellets of filler with the active ingredient or by pelleting a mixture of the active ingredient and powdered filler.Compositions for dressing seed, for example, may comprise an agent for example a mineral oil for assisting the adhesion of the composition to the seed, alternatively the active ingredient can be formulated for seed dressing purposes using an organic solvent for example N methylpyrrolidone or dimethyl formamide . The compositions may also be in the form of dispersible powders, granules or grains comprising a wetting agent to facilitate the dispersion in liquids of the powder or grains which may contain also fillers and suspending agents. The aqueous dispersions or emulsions may be prepared by dissolving the active ingredient s in an organic solvent optionally containing wetting, dispersing or emulsifying agent s and then adding the mixture to water which may also contain wetting, dispersing or emulsifying agent s . Suitable organic solvents are ethylene dichloride, isopropyl alcohol, propylene glycol, diacetone alcohol, toluene, kerosene, methylnaphthalene, the xylenes, trichloroethylene, furfuryl alcohol, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, and glycol ethers eg. 2 ethoxyethanol and 2butoxyethanol . The compositions to be used as sprays may also be in the form of aerosols wherein the formulation is held in a container under pressure in the presence of a propellant, eg. fluorotrichloromethane or dichlorodifluoromethane. The compounds can be mixed in the dry state with a pyrotechnic mixture to form a composition suitable for generating in enclosed spaces a smoke containing the compounds. Alternatively, the compounds may be used in a microencapsulated form. They may also be formulated in biodegradable polymeric formulations to obtain a slow, controlled release of the active substance. By including suitable additives, for example additives for improving the distribution, adhesive power and resistance to rain on treated surfaces, the different compositions can be better adapted for various utilities. The compounds can be used as mixtures with fertilisers eg. nitrogen , potassium or phosphorus containing fertilisers . Compositions comprising only granules of fertiliser incorporating, for example coated with, the compound are preferred. Such granules suitably contain up to 25 by weight of the compound. The invention therefore also provides a fertiliser composition comprising the compound of general formula I or a salt or metal complex thereof. The compositions may also be in the form of liquid preparations for use as dips or sprays which are generally aqueous dispersions or emulsions containing the active ingredient in the presence of one or more surfactants eg.wetting agent s , dispersing agent s , emulsifying agent s or suspending agent s or which are spray formulations of the kind suitable for use in electrodynamic spraying techniques. The foregoing agents can be cationic, anionic or non ionic agents. Suitable cationic agents are quaternary ammonium compounds, for example cetyltrimethylammonium bromide. Suitable anionic agents are soaps, salts of aliphatic monoesters of sulphuric acid for example sodium lauryl sulphate , and salts of sulphonated aromatic compounds for example sodium dodecylbenzenesulphonate, sodium, calcium or ammonium lignosulphonate, butylnaphthalene sulphonate, and a mixture of sodium diisopropyl and triisopropylnaphthalene sulphonates . Suitable non ionic agents are the condensation products of ethylene oxide with fatty alcohols such as oleyl or cetyl alcohol, or with alkyl phenols such as octyl or nonyl phenol and octylcresol. Other non ionic agents are the partial esters derived from long chain fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides, the condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide, and the lecithins. Suitable suspending agents are hydrophilic colloids for example polyvinylpyrrolidone and sodium carboxymethylcellulose , and the vegetable gums for example gum acacia and gum tragacanth . The compositions for use as aqueous dispersions or emulsions are generally supplied in the form of a concentrate containing a high proportion of the active ingredient s , and the concentrate is to be diluted with water before use. These concentrates often should be able to withstand storage for prolonged periods and after such storage be capable of dilution with water in order to form aqueous preparations which remain homogeneous for a sufficient time to enable them to be applied by conventional and electrodynamic spray equipment. The concentrates may conveniently contain up to 95 , suitably 10 85 , for example 25 60 , by weight of the active ingredient s .These concentrates suitably contain organic acids eg.alkaryl or aryl sulphonic acids such as xylenesulphonic acid or dodecyl benzenesulphonic acid since the presence of such acids can increase the solubility of the active ingredient s in the polar solvents often used in the concentrates. The concentrates suitably contain also a high proportion of surfactants so that sufficiently stable emulsions in water can be obtained. After dilution to form aqueous preparations, such preparations may contain varying amounts of the active ingredient s depending upon the intended purpose, but an aqueous preparation containing 0.0005 to 10 , or 0.01 to 10 , by weight of active ingredient s may be used. The compositions of this invention can comprise also other compound s having biological activity, eg. compounds having similar or complementary fungicidal or plant growth activity or compounds having plant growth regulating, herbicidal or insecticidal activity. The other fungicidal compound can be, for example, one which is capable of combating ear diseases of cereals eg.wheat such as Septoria, Gibberella and Helminthosporium spp., seed and soil borne diseases and downy and powdery mildews on grapes and powdery mildew and scab on apple etc.These mixtures of fungicides can have a broader spectrum of activity than the compound of general formula I alone further the other fungicide can have a synergistic effect on the fungicidal activity of the compound of general formula I . Examples of the other fungicidal compound are imazalil, benomyl, carbendazim, thiophanate methyl, captafol, captan, sulphur, triforine, dodemorph, tridemorph, pyrazophos, furalaxyl, ethirimol, tecnazene, dimethirimol, bupirimate, chlorothalonil, vinclozolin, procymidone, iprodione, metalaxyl, forsetyl aluminium, carboxin, oxycarboxin, fenarimol, nuarimol, fenfuram, methfuroxan, nitrotal isopropyl, triadimefon, thiabendazole, etridiazole, triadimenol, biloxazol, dithianon, binapacryl, quinomethionate, guazatine, dodine, fentin acetate, fentin hydroxide, dinocap, folpet, dichlofluanid, ditalimphos, kitazin, cycloheximide, dichlobutrazol, a dithiocarbamate, a copper compound, a mercury compound, 1 2 cyano 2 methoxyiminoacetyl 3 ethyl urea, fenaponil, ofurace, propiconazole, etaconazole and fenpropemorph. The compounds of general formula 1 can be mixed with soil, peat or other rooting media for the protection of plants against seed borne, soil borne or foliar fungal diseases. Suitable insecticides are Pirimor, Croneton, dimethoate, Metasystox and formothion. The other plant growth regulating compound can be one which controls weeds or seedhead formation, improves the level or longevity of the plant growth regulating activity of the compounds of general formula I , selectively controls the growth of the less desirable plants eg.grasses or causes the compound of general formula I to act faster or slower as a plant growth regulating agent.Some of these other agents will be herbicides. Examples of suitable plant growth regulating compounds, which can display synergy in admixture, or use, with the invention compounds are the gibberellins eg.GA3, GA4 or GA7 , the auxins eg. indoleacetic acid, indolebutyric acid, naphthoxyacetic acid or naphthylacetic acid , the cytokinins eg. kinetin, diphenylurea, benzimidazole, benzyladenine or benzylaminopurine , phenoxyacetic acids eg. 2,4 D or MCPA , substituted benzoic acids eg. triiodobenzoic acid , morphactins eg. chlorfluorecol , maleic hydrazide, glyphosate, glyphosine, long chain fatty alcohols and acids, dikegulac, fluoridamid, mefluidide, substituted quaternary ammonium and phosphonium compounds eg. chlormequat chlorphonium or mepiquat chloride , ethephon, carbetamide, methyl 3,6dichloroanisate, daminozide , asulam, abscisic acid, isopyrimol, l 4 chlorophenyl 4,6 dimethyl 2 oxo 1,2 dihydropyridine 3 carboxylic acid, hydroxybenzonitriles eg. bromoxynil , difenzoquat , benzoylprop ethyl 3,6dichloropicolinic acid, and tecnazene. Synergy will be most likely to occur with those of the foregoing which are quaternary ammonium compounds and with those marked with an asterisk. The use of the compounds of general formula I in conjunction with gibberellins can be useful where it is desired to reduce the plant growth regulating effects of the compounds eg. where they are to be used as fungicides . Where the compounds are being applied to the soil surrounding the plants or to the roots of the plant, the plant growth regulating effects of the compounds may possibly be reduced by using also certain types of phenoxybenzoic acids and their derivatives. The following Examples illustrate the invention the temperatures are given in degrees Centigrade C . EXAMPLE 1 This Example illustrates the preparation of 2 hydroxy 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 l, 2,4 triazol l yl propionamide Compound No. 6 of Table I . A mixture of 4 chlorophenacyl chloride 4.25g , trimethylsilyl cyanide 2.23g , and zinc iodide 25 mg in dry dichloromethane 20 ml was heated at 35 40 C under an atmosphere of nitrogen for 4 hours, adding a further portion of zinc iodide 25 mg every hour. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to leave a brown oil. The oil was diluted with concentrated hydrochloric acid 18 ml then treated with gaseous hydrogen chloride while stirring at room temperature for 1 hour. The viscous reaction mixture was allowed to stand overnight, then washed with water 3 x 20 ml , and neutralised with sodium hydroxide.The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate the extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure to give a sticky yellow solid 3.4g which was triturated with ether and dried to give 2 4 chlorophenyl 2,3 epoxypropionamide 1.12g, 25 as a white solid, m.p. 124 125 C, found C, 54.47 H, 3.98 N, 7.12 . CgH8ClN02 requires C, 54.68 H, 4.05 N, 7.09 . A solution of 2 4 chlorophenyl 2,3 epoxypropionamide 1.07g in dry dimethylformamide DMF 7 ml was added to a stirred solution of sodium triazole Lfrom 1,2,4 triazole 0.51g and sodium hydride 0.164g in DMF 15 ml at room temperature under an atmosphere of nitrogen. The reaction mixture was heated at 800C for 3 hours, allowed to cool, then poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate.The extracts were washed with water then dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure to give a sticky white solid l.llg which was triturated with ethyl acetate and dried to give the title compound 0.71g, 498 as a white solid, m.p. 192 193 C, Found C, 49.79 H, 4.37 N, 20,54 . C11H11C1N402 requiresC, 49.54 H, 4.16, N,21.018 . EXAMPLE 2 This Example illustrates the preparation of N,Ndiethyl 2 hydroxy 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 1,2 4 triazol l yl propionamide Compound No. 8 of Table I . A solution of pyruvic acid 2.2g in dry diethyl ether 25 ml was added to a briskly stirred solution of dichlorophenylmagnesium iodide L from 2,4 dichloroiodobenzene 13.65g and magnesium 1.2g in ether 400 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen at a rate at which the ether refluxed steadily a thick yellow precipitate formed.The mixture was stirred for 2 hours following the addition, then poured into a mixture of ice and dilute hydrochloric acid and stirred for a further 30 minutes. The ether and acidic aqueous layers were separated and the latter was extracted with fresh ether. The combined ether layers were extracted with aqeuous sodium bicarbonate and the combined extracts were washed with ether, then acidified and extracted with ether. These extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated to give 2 hydroxy 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl propionic acid l.49g, 25 as a yellow oil. A mixture of 2 hydroxy 2 2, 4 dichlorophenyl propionic acid 0.325g and phosphoric acid 7.5 ml were heated at 125 C for 2 hours then allowed to cool and poured into water. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and the extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated to give a fawn solid 0.24g , m.p. 140 143 C. Recrystallisation from 80 100 petrol gave i 2,4 dichlorophenyl acrylic acid O.2Og, 67 as a colourless solid, m.p. 143 144 C Thionyl chloride 0.28g was added to a suspension of X 2,4 dichlorophenyl acrylic acid 0.34g in dry acetonitrile 5 ml and the mixture was heated at 80 C for 30 minutes.The volatile materials were removed under reduced pressure and the stirred residue was diluted with a solution of triethylamine 0.25g in methanol. After 30 minutes the volatile materials were again removed under reduced pressure. Water was added to the residue and it was extracted with ether. The extracts were washed with water, treated with magnesium sulphate and charcoal, filtered and concentrated to give methyls 2,4 dichloro phenyl acrylate 0.34g, 94 as a pale yellow oil. 30 Hydrogen peroxide and a solution of sodium hydroxide 0.07g in water 0.5 ml were added successively to a stirred solution of methyl 2,4 dichlorophenyl acrylate 0.34g in methanol 3 ml . After 15 minutes further sodium hydroxide 0.07g was added. After a further 30 minutes water 10 ml was added and the mixture was washed with ether 10 ml , acidified with dilute hydrochloric acid, and extracted with ether. The extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated to give 2 2,4 dichloropheny1 2,3 epoxy propionic acid 0.32g, 93 as an oil which crystallised on standing, melting point 103 105vC decomposed . A solution of 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2,3 epoxy propionic acid 1.00g in dry ether 10 ml was added over 10 minutes to a stirred suspension of sodium hydride O.104g in ether 10 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen.The mixture was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature, then oxalyl chloride 0.603g was added over 5 minutes vigorous evolution of gas . The mixture was stirred for 45 minutes, then diethylamine 1.57g was added over 15 minutes thick white precipitate . The mixture was allowed to stand overnight, then poured into water and extracted with ether.The extracts were washed successively with water, aqueous sodium bicarbonate x2 , and water, then dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated to give a yellow oil 0.83g containing N,N diethyl 2 2,4 dichloro phenyl 2,3 epoxypropionamide. A solution of the crude product in dry dimethylformamide DMF 5 ml was added to a stirred solution of sodium triazole Efrom 1,2,4 triazole 0.21g and sodium hydride O.07g in dry DMF 10 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen and the mixture was heated at 80 C for 2 hours. After cooling, the mixture was poured into water and extracted with ether. The extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate, and concentrated to give a sticky solid 0.76g .Trituration with ether and drying under reduced pressure gave the title compound 50.40g, 26 from 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2,3 epoxy propionic acidl as a white solid, m.p. 157 158 C. EXAMPLE 3 This Example illustrates the preparation of cyclopentyl 2 hydroxy 2 2, 4 dichlorophenyl 3 1,2,4 triazol l yl propionate Compound No 26 of Table I . A solution of ethyl pyruvate 23.20g in dry diethyl ether 100 ml was added dropwise to a stirred solution of the Grignard reagent formed from 2,4 dichloroiodobenzene 60.00g and magnesium 6.00g in diethyl ether 325 ml at a rate which maintained a steady reflux. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour, then water and dilute hydrochloric acid were added and the mixture was extracted with ether. The extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure to give almost pure ethyl 2 hydroxy 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl propionate 48.01g, 918 1H n.m.r. CDC13 G 1.84 3H,s, CH3COH . A mixture of ethyl 2 hydroxy 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl propionate 42.00g and potassium hydroxide 16.16g in methanol 150 ml and water 30 ml was stirred at room temperature for 2 days. Further water was then added to the reaction mixture and it was washed with ether, acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid, and extracted with ether. The extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated to give 2hydroxy 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl propionic acid 28.70g, 758 as an orange oil. This acid was dehydrated with phosphoric acid then converted into the corresponding acid chloride with thionyl chloride as described in Example 2. Part of the acid chloride was treated with cyclopentanol and triethylamine as described in Example 2 for methanol and triethylamine to give cyclopentyl 8 2,4 dichlorophenyl acrylate Ein a yield of 52 from 2 hydroxy 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl propionic acid as a pale yellow oil, boiling point evaporative distillation 140 C at 0.15 torr, 1H n.m.r. CDC13 4 5.79 and 6.55 each 1H, s, CH2 . A mixture of cyclopentyl B 2,4 dichlorophenyl acrylate 5.26g and meta chloroperbenzoic acid 6.3g in 1,2 dichloroethane 100 ml was heated at 100 C for 20 hours, then further portions of the peracid 0.15g were added every hour until thin layer chromatographic analysis showed that the unsaturated ester had gone 4 hours . The mixture was allowed to cool, diluted with dichloromethane, then washed sucessively with water X 2 , aqueous sodium bicarbonate X 2 and water X 2 . The resulting solution was dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated to give almost pure cyclopentyl 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2,3 epoxy propionate 5.62g , 1H n.m.r. cDcl3 Z 2.90 and 3.55 each 1H, d, J 7Hz, epoxide ring , 5.22 1H, br s, CO2CH . Part of this epoxide 5.50g was added to a solution of sodium triazole Lfrom 1,2,4 triazole 1.55g and sodium hydride 0.48g in dimethylformamide 70 ml and the mixture was heated at 1600C for 5 hours then allowed to cool, diluted with water, and extracted with ether. The extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate, and concentrated to give an oil 4.70g .Chromatography on a column of silica gel using diethyl ether as eluant, followed by trituration, gave the title compound E2.O5g, 31 from cyclopentyl 2,4 dichloro phenyl acrylate as a white solid, melting point 89 92 C, 1H n.m.r. CDC13 5.03 2H,s, CH2N , 5.29 1H, br s, CO2CH , 5.71 lH,s, OH . Found C, 51.98 H, 4.47 N, 11.27 . C16H17Cl2N3O3 requires C, 51.90 H, 4.63 N, 11.35 .NOTE Ethyl alpha 2,4 dichlorophenyl acrylate could be prepared by directly dehydrating ethyl 2 hydroxy 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl propionate by the following method Ethyl 2 hydroxy 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl propionate 0.50g and phosphoric acid 5.0 ml were mixed and heated at 125 C for 2 hours then allowed to cool. Water was added and the mixture was extracted with ether. The extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate, and concentrated to give ethyl X 2,4 dichlorophenyl acrylate 0.37g, 80 as an oil. EXAMPLE 4 This Example illustrates the preparation of methyl 2 hydroxy 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl propionate Compound No. 7 of Table I . A mixture of methyl 2,4 dichlorophenyl bromoacetate 10.2g, prepared by treating methyl 2,4 dichlorophenyl acetate with N bromosuccinimide , triethylbenzylammonium chloroide 0.30g , potassium carbonate 6.9g , paraformaldehyde 0.75g and dry dimethyl formamide 7.8 ml was stirred briskly at room temperature for 60 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted with ether.The extracts were washed with water then dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrate to give an orange oil 7.58g . Bulb to bulb distillation of this oil at 0.6 torr gave methyl 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2,3 epoxypropionate 3.20g, 39 as a colourless ol oven temperature 155 C Methyl 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 epoxypropionate 0.93g was added to a solution sodium triazole from 1,2,4 triazle 0.29 g and sodium hydride 0.99 g in dimethylformamide 15 ml and the r iture was heated at 80 C for 2 hours, allowed to cool, poured into water, and extracted with ether. The extracts were washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate, and concentrated to give a solid which was triturated with a little ether to give the title compound 0.48g, 41 as an almost white solid, melting point 183 184 C, 1H n.m.r. CDCl3 3.80 3H, s, CO2CH3 , 5.00 2H, 2d, each J 14Hz, CH2N . EXAMPLE 5 This Example illustrates the preparation of 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 4,4 dimethyl t 2 oxazolin 2 yl 2 l,2, 4 triazol l yl ethanol. Compound No. 1 of Table I . A mixture of 4 chlorophenylacetic acid 25.6g and 2 amino 2 tethyl propan 1 ol 13.4g and toluene 300 ml was refluxed in a Dean and Stark apparatus for 30 hours. After cooling to room temperature the solution was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 2 x 150 ml , water 100 ml , and dried over anhydrous potassium carbonate. Removal of the solvent in vacuo gave a pale yellow oil which was distilled at reduced pressure to give 2 4 chlorobenzyl 4,4 dimethyl 2 oxazoline 80 as a colourless liquid, b.p. 84 85 0.15 mm Hg. A solution of 2 4 chlorobenzyl 4,4 dimethyl 82 oxazoline 15.0g in dry tetrahydrofuran 150 ml was cooled to 72 C in a nitrogen atmosphere. n Butyl lithium 42 ml of 1.6M solution in hexane was added dropwise over a period of 45 minutes keeping the temperature at 700 C. Dry oxygen was bubbled into the mixture at 720C over a period of 3 hours, and then 10 ammonium chloride solution 150 ml was added. The mixture was extracted into diethylether, the extracts were washed with water and dried over magnesium sulphate. Removal of the ether gave a semisolid which recrystallised from 60 80 petroleum ether to give 2 4 chlorobenzoyl 4,4 dimethyl Z22 oxazoline 65 as a pale yellow solid, m.p. 86 88 . To a solution of dimsyl sodium prepared by reacting sodium hydride 1.2g, 50 suspension in oil with dry dimethyl sulphoxide 40 ml under nitrogen at 650C was added dry tetrahydrofuran 40 ml at room temperature. The solution was cooled to 0 C trimethylsulphonium iodide 5.lg dissolved in dimethyl sulphoxide 20 ml was added quickly and the solution stirred for a further 1 minute. 2 4 Chlorobenzoyl 4,4 dimethyl4N2 oxazoline 4.7g dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml was added dropwise at 00C over a period of 3 minutes, stirred at 00C for 1 hour, and warmed up to room temperature for I hour. The mixture was poured into water and extracted with ether the ether extracts were washed with water and dried over magnesium sulphate. Removal of the ether gave l 4 chlorophenyl 1 4,4 dimethyl2 oxazolin 2 yl ethylene oxide 95 as a golden yellow oil. A solution of l 4 chlorophenyl l 4,4 dimethyl 42 oxazolin 2 yl ethylene oxide 4.0g in dry dimethyl formamide 10 ml was added to a stirred solution of sodium triazole from 1,2,4 triazole 1.65g and sodium hydride 0.57g in dimethyl formamide 50 ml at room temperature.The reaction mixture was heated at 60 for 6 hours, allowed to cool, then poured into water and extracted with diethyl ether. The extracts were washed with water then dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure giving an orange oil which was purified by medium pressure chromatography silica Crosfield 210 eluted with ethyl acetate to give the title compound 40 as a white crystalline solid m.p. 104 105 C. EXAMPLE 6 An emulsifiable concentrate was made up by mixing the ingredients, and stirring the mixture until all the constituents were dissolved.Compound No. 7 of Table I 10 Ethylene dichloride 40 Calcium dodecylbenzenesulphate 5 Lubrol L 10 Aromasol H 35 ExAMPLE 7 A composition in the form of grains readily dispersible in a liquid, eg. water, was prepared by grinding together the first three ingredients in the presence of added water and then mixing in the sodium acetate. The resultant mixture was dried and passed through a British Standard mesh sieve, size 44 100, to obtain the desired size of grains.Compound No. 7 of Table I 50 Dispersol T 25 Lubrol APN5 1.5 Sodium acetate 23.5 EXAMPLE 8 The ingredients were all ground together to produce a powder formulation readily dispersible in liquids.Compound No. 7 of Table I 458 Dispersol T 5 Lissapol NX 0.5 Cellofas B600 28Sodium acetate 47.5 EXAMPLE 9 The active ingredient was dissolved in a solvent and the resultant liquid was sprayed on to the granules ofChina clay. The solvent was then allowed to evaporate to produce a granular composition.Compound No. 7 of Table I 5 China clay granules 95 EXAMPLE 10 A composition suitable for use as a seed dressing was prepared by mixing the three ingredients.Compound No. 7 of Table I 50 Mineral Oil 2 China clay 48 EXAMPLE 11 A dusting powder was prepared by mixing the active ingredient with talc.Compound No. 7 of Table I 5 Talc 95 EXAMPLE 12 A Col formulation was prepared by ball milling the constituents set out below and then forming an aqueous suspension of the ground mixture with water.Compound No. 7 of Table I 40 Dispersol T 10 Lubrol APN5 1 Water EXAMPLE 13 A dispersible powder formulation was made by mixing together the ingredients set out below and then grinding the mixture until all were thoroughly mixed.Compound No. 7 of Table I 25 Aerosol OT B 2 Dispersol AC 58 China clay 28 Silica 40 EXAMPLE 14 This Example illustrates the preparation of a dispersible powder formulation. The ingredients were mixed and the mixture then ground in a comminution mill. Compound No. 7 of Table I 25 Perminal BX 18 Dispersol T 5 Polyvinylpyrrolidone 10 Silica 25 China clay 34 EXAMPLE 15 The ingredients set out below were formulated into a dispersible powder by mixing then grinding the ingredients.Compound No. 7 of Table I 25 Aerosol OT B 2 Dispersol A 5 China clay 688 In Examples 6 to 15 t he proportions of the ingredients given are by weight. The remaining compounds of Table I were formulated in the same way as described in Examples 6 to 15. There now follows an explanation of the compositions or substances represented by the various Trade Marks andTrade Names mentioned above.LUBROL L a condensate of nonyl phenol 1 mole with ethylene oxide 13 moles AROMASOL H a solvent mixture of alkylbenzenesDISPERSOL T AC t a mixture of sodium sulphate and a condensate of formaldehyde with sodium naphthalene sulphonateLUBROL APN5 a condensate of nonyl phenol 1 mole with naphthalene oxide 5.5 moles CELLOFAS B600 a sodium carboxymethyl cellulose thickenerLISSAPOL NX a condensate of nonyl phenol 1 mole with ethylene oxide 8 moles AEROSOL OT B dioctyl sodium sulphosuccinate PERMINAL BX a sodium alkyl naphthalene sulphonate EXAMPLE 16 The compounds were tested against a variety of foliar fungal diseases of plants. The technique employed was as follows. The plants were grown in John Innes Potting Compost No 1 or 2 in 4 cm diameter minipots. A layer of fine sand was placed at the bottom of the pots containing the dicotyledonous plants to facilitate uptake of test compound by the roots. The test compounds were formulated either by bead milling with aqueous Dispersol T or as a solution in acetone or acetone ethanol which was diluted to the required concentration immediately before use. For the foliage diseases, suspensions 100 ppm active ingredient were sprayed on to the soil. Exceptions to this were the tests on Botrytis cinerea, Plasmopara viticola and Venturia inaequalis. The sprays were applied to maximum retention and the root drenches to a final concentration equivalent to approximately 40 ppm a.i. dry soil.Tween 20, to give a final concentration of 0.05 , was added when the sprays were applied to cereals. For most of the tests the compound was applied to the soil roots and to the foliage by spraying one or two days before the plant was inoculated with the diseases.An exception was the test on Erysiphe graminis in which the plants were inoculated 24 hours before treatment.After inoculation, the plants were put into an appropriate environment to allow infection to take place and then incubated until the disease was ready for assessment. The period between inoculation and assessment varied from four to fourteen days according to the disease and environment. The disease control was recorded by the following grading 4 no disease 3 trace 5 of disease on untreated plants 2 6 25 of disease on untreated plants 1 26 59 of disease on untreated plants 0 60 100 of disease on untreated plants The results are shown in Table II. TABLE II EMI41.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP GRAPE SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 0 tb SEP 6 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 7 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 8 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 9 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP SEP 11 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 12 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP SEP 14 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP TABLE II EMI42.1 COMPOUND SEP PUCCINIA SEP ERYSIPHE SEP PIRICULARIA SEP PLASMOPARA SEP PHYTOPHTHORA SEP BOTRYTIS SEP CERCOSPORA SEP VENTURIA tb NUMBER SEP RECONDITA SEP GRAMINIS SEP ORYZAE SEP VITICOLA SEP INFESTANS SEP CINEREA SEP ARACHIDICOLA SEP INAEQUALIS tb SEP WHEAT SEP BARLEY SEP RICE SEP VINE SEP TOMATO SEP GRAPE SEP PEANUT SEP APPLE tb SEP 17 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 18 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP SEP 20 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP SEP 21 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP SEP 22 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 23 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP SEP 24 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 25 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 26 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 27 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 28 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP SEP SEP 4 SEP 4 tb EXAMPLE 17 This Example illustrates the plant growth regulating properties of the compounds. The compounds were applied as an overall spray of an emulsifiable concentrate diluted to give the concentration shown in Table III. The plants were grown in 3 pots in peat compost and sprayed at the 2 leaf stage. Plant growth regulating effects were assessed 18 19 days after application of the compounds. Retardation of growth was scored on a 0 3 scale where 1 0 30 retardation 2 31 75 retardation 3 75 retardationAdditional plant growth regulating properties are indicated as followsG darker green leaf colourA apical effectT tillering sideshooting effectThe results are shown in Table III. If no figure is shown the compound was substantially inactive as a stunting agent. TABLE III EMI44.1 COMPOUND SEP DAT SEP RATE SEP AT SEP CC SEP DA SEP LT SEP SH SEP TO SEP SY SEP CT SEP MZ SEP WW SEP BR tb SEP ppm tb SEP 2 SEP 19 SEP 4000 SEP 1G SEP 3G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP G SEP 2 SEP 2T tb SEP 3 SEP 19 SEP 4000 SEP 2 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 3A SEP 3GA SEP 3G SEP 2G SEP 3GAT SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 7 SEP 19 SEP 4000 SEP 1G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3G SEP 2G SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2GT SEP 2G tb SEP 24 SEP 18 SEP 4000 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 3GA SEP 3GA SEP 3TAG SEP 3GAT SEP 1GAT SEP 3G SEP T tb SEP 26 SEP 19 SEP 4000 SEP 3G SEP 2 SEP 1G SEP 2GA SEP 2G SEP 2GA SEP 2GA SEP 3GA SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 27 SEP 18 SEP 4000 SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 2G SEP 2GA SEP 2G SEP 2GA SEP 2GA SEP 3GA SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb Key to test species in Table III AT Agrostis tenuisCC Cynosurus cristatusDA Dactyl is glomerataLT Lactuca sativaSB Beta vulgarisTO Lycopersicum esculentumSY Glycine maxCT Gossypium hirsutumMZ Zea maysWW Triticum aestivumBR Hordeum vulgare