# Method for preparing organo glycosides.

## Abstract
Organo glycoside ethers are prepared by reacting sac charide containing compositions with alcohols of 3 or more carbon atoms in the presence of 2 or more moles of water for each aldose unit mole. The method is particularly effective for converting polysaccharides, such as starches to alkyl glycosides by means of a reaction media comprised of starch, an alkanol of at least 3 carbon atoms and at least one other alcohol soluble organo co solvent in the presence of an acid catalyst at elevated temperatures under pressure.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for converting saccharides and alcohol into organo glycoside mixtures, characterised in that a saccharide is reacted with an organo alcohol of at least 3 carbon atoms under superatmospheric pressure and at a temperature sufficient to convert the saccharide and alcohol into an organo glycoside moisture, the reaction being carried out in the presence of at least 2 moles water for each saccharide molar unit and an effective amount of catalyst, and at least a portion of the organo glycoside mixture is recovered from the reaction mixture. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the organo alcohol comprises the major liquid component of the reaction medium and the reaction medium additionally contains at least one other alcoholsoluble organic co solvent. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2 characterised in that the alcohol soluble organic co solvent is at least one of acetone, ethylene glycol, methanol and ethanol. 4. A method as claimed in claim 2 or 3 characterised in that the major liquid component of the reaction medium comprises a monohydric alcohol. 5. .R method as claimed in Claim 4 characterised in that the monohydric alcohol comprises an alkanol containing from 3 to 5 carbon atons inclusive. 6. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 characterised in that the liquid dispersant contains from 2 to 6 moles water for each anhydrous glucose mole and the reaction is conducted in a tubular reaction zone at a temperature ranging from 1200C to 2000C. 7. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 characterised in that the polysaccharide consistsessentially of a starch and the liquid dispersant consists essentially of butanol, water and methanol. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7 characterised in that the weight ratio of butanol to total water and methanol of the liquid dispersant ranges from 3 1 to 4 1 9. A method as claimed in claim 8 characterised in that the reaction is conducted at a temperature ranging from 140 to 180or. 10 A method as claimed in claim 3 characterised in that the eight ratio of monohydric alochol to the total water and co solvent weight ranges from 2 to 4 1, the monohydric alcohol comprises an alkanol of 3 to 4 carbon atoms, the saccharide comprises starch and the conversion reaction is conducted at a temperature ranging from 140 C to 1800C.

## Description
Method for Preparing Organo Glycosides This invention relates to a method for preparing organo glycosides. Numerous methods for preparing alkyl glycoside mixtures have been reported by the prior art. UnitedStates Patent No. 3,219,656 by Boettner discloses a typical process for preparing long chain alkyl glycoside mixtures via a series of sequential alcohol interchange reactions. Boettner initially converts glucose and methanol to methyl glycoside, the methyl glycosides to butyl glycosides by a butanol interchange reaction and then the butyl glycoside mixture to a fatty glycoside mixture by a fatty alcohol interchange. Boettner suggests that water and the interchanged alcohol by products should be removed during or prior to each successive interchange reaction. United States Patent No. 3,598,865 by Lew discloses a process for converting methyl glycoside to long chain glucoside in the presence of primary and secondary alcohols of 3 to 5 carbon atoms. In another patent by Lew U.S.Patent No. 3,974,138 , butyl glycosides of a D.P. 1.1 to 4.0 are reportedly directly prepared by reacting glucose with n butyl alcohol. United States Patent No. 4,223,129 by Roth et al discloses a continuous process for making alkyl glycosides.The patentees studied the effects that feed starch moisture 2 11 had upon mmethyl glycoside production.Dextrose levels were shown to increase as the residual moisture content increases. oth et al concluded that methyl glycosides could be prspare without predrying the starch. According to he present invention, there is provided a method cf converting saccharides and alcohol into organo glycoside mixtures, characterised in that a saccharide is reacted with an organo alcohol of at least 3 carbon at under superatmospheric pressure and at a temperature sufficient to convert the saccharide and alcohol into an organo glycoside mixture, the reaction being carried out in the presence of at least 2 moles water for each saccharide molar unit and an effective amount of catalyst, and at least a portion of the organo glycoside mixture is recovered from the reaction mixture. Generally the saccharide is dispersed into a liquid dispersant. system comprising the organo alcohol as the major component thereof. The liquid dispersant system may also contain an alcohol soluble organic co solvent.The saccharide reacts with the alcohol which is. the major component of the dispersant system to produce the organo glycoside mixture in which the organo group ofthe glycoside contains at least 3 carbon atoms. The process generally applies to the preparation of organo glycoside mixture represented by the structural formula R O G X wherein R , G and x respectively represent an organo group of at least 3 carbon atoms, a saccahride unit and the average number of sacchatide units.The glycoside mixtures are prepared by reacting organic alcohols of at least 3 carbon atoms e.g. alcohols of 3 to 25 carbon atoms with the saccharide reactants under acid catalysis to produce the organo glycoside reaction product.The monohydric alcohols are well suited for this purposeIllustrative monohydric alcohols include the primary or secondary straight or branched saturated or unsaturated, alkyl, arylalkyl alcohols, ether alcohols, cyclic alcohols and heteroclic alcohols. Advantageously the process is applied to reacting alkanols of 3 to 6 carbon atoms inclusive e.g. propanol, butanol, pentanoi, hexanol, mixtures thereof with polysaccharides. The primary alkanols of 3 to 4 carbon atoms preferably butanol are particularly well suited as the major weight basis liquid dispersant. The weight ratio of the major alcohol dispersant to the remaining liquid dispersants of the system will generally range from 2 1 to 5 1 and preferably from 3 1 to 4 1. The value of x in the above formula can be controlled to a certain extent by the processing and reactant conditions. The more elevated temperatures and molar excesses of saccharide result in more extensive polymerization of glucosides and a higher x value.Conversely lower temperatures and molar excesses of the alcohol reactant reduces the extent of glycosidation.Although x may have a value ranging from 1 to 50 or higher, x will typically be of a value less than 20.Advantageously x will have a value within the 1 to 10 range and preferably less than 5. The process applies generally to any saccahridecontaining composition which can be converted into organo glycosides under acidic conditions with the liquid dispersant system of this invention. Such saccahridecontaining compositions include compositions which molecularly contain at least one saccharide moiety or unit. Unsubstituted or substituted monosaccharides e.g.aldose or ketoses or polysaccharide e g. aldoside or ketosides containing sugar alcohol or sugar ether units which are reactive with the three carbon and higher alcohols to form alkyl glycoside mixtures may be used for this purpose. Illustrative monosaccharides include aldoses such as apiose, arabinose, galactose, glucose, lyxose, mannose, gallose, altrose, isode, arabinose, ribose, talose, x v lose, he lower aldose ethers thereof e.g. methoxy , ethoxy , propoxy , butoxy , polyoxyalkylene e.g. polyoxyethylene or polyoxypropylene aldose ether derivatives rhich contain terminal hydroxy or lower alkoxy C1 C4 aroups and mixtures thereof.Illustrative polysaccharides include disaccharides e.g. maltose, lactose and sucrose , trisaccharides e.g. maltotriose saccharides of 4 or more saccharide units e.g. hemicellulose, inulin, dextrin, dextran, xylan, starch and hydrolyzed starch and low D. r, corn syrup the polysaccharide ester and ether derivatives such as mentioned above and mixtures thereof. The process of the present invention is especially adpated to polysaccharides and particularly to starches. In addition to the major alcohol dispersant, it is advantageous to include in the reaction media at least one other alcohol soluble organic solvent. A variety of non polar e.g. petroleum ether , or polar alcohol soluble organic solvents may be used for this purpose. Polar solvents which are normally liquid at 200C and form aqueous solutions when combined with an equal weight of water are particularly useful as the alcohol soluble organic solvent. Illustrative alcohol soluble organic solvents include water miscible alcohols of 1 or 2 carbon atoms, ketones, aldehydes and mixtures thereof.Homogeneous alcoholic aqueous solutions comprised of watermiscible and alcohol soluble organo solvents such as acetone, ethylene glycol, methanol, ethanol in combination with water and the major dispersant are advantageously used as the liquid dispersant system of this invention. In addition to the major and minor organic solvents, the liquid dispersant system contains water. Commercially available starches will typically contain from 1.1 to 1.4 moles water per anhydrous glycoside mole or 10 to 13 water. To eafectisely use such starches herein, additional water needs to be added to the system. The total water content within the reaction media will typically be maintained at a 1vcl of at least 2.0 moles of water for each saccharide in it mole. The water content of the system includes the water contributed b the saccharide, other reactarts an . solvent dispersants as ell as any added water. The water content in the Reaction media can range from 2 to 25 moles for each saccharide unit mole. Advantageously the water content within the reaction media will ranee rrom 3 to 10 moles and preferably from 4 to 8 moles for each saccharide unit mce. The reaction is conducted in the presence of a catalyst. Representative catalysts include inorganic or organic acids, acid electron accepting compounds such as the Lewis acids e.g. boron, trifluoride, tin tetrachloride, aluminium chloride and mixtures thereof. Illustrative acid catalysts include the strong mineral acids such as hydrochloric, hydrofluoric, hydriodic, phosphoric, sulfuric, sulfonic acids and mixtures thereof. Exemplary strong organic acid catalysts include the phosphonic or sulfonic acid derivatives ofalkyl, alkylaryl, aryl, cyclic and heterocyclic organic compounds and mixtures thereof.Representative strong organic acids are the alkyl phosphonic acids and alkyl sulfonic acids such as the methyl, ethyl, butyl, propyl, amyl, sulfonic or phosphonic acids, phenyl sulfonic acid, phenyl phosphonic acid, paratoluene sulfonic acid, paratoluene phosphonic acid and mixtures thereof. Resin catlaysts may also be used as converting catalysts. Similar to the organic catalysts, these resins will normally contain sulfonic and or phosphonic acid groups. Certain of the sulphonic phenol formaldehyde and polystyrene exchange cationic resins, which tend to thermally decompose at temperatures of 1200C or higher, are generally ineffective at processing temperatures of 1300C or higher.Thermally stable, acid resins such as a perfluorinatod copolymeric resin e.g. tetrafluoroethylene perfluoro 3,6 dioxa 4 methyl 7 octenesulfonic acid commercially available from N.I. duPont as NAFION II and the like e.g. see Chemical Enaineerinq News, March 15, 1982, pages 22 25 can be effectively adpated to those processes conducted at l00C or iliqher. The conversion of the saccharine and organo alcohol into the R O G glycoside is typically conducted at elevated temperatures and pressures. The reaction will most generally he conducted at a temperature of 100 C or higher and most typically within the 1200C to 2000C range. The preferred operational temperature for reacting starch with the C3 C4 alkanols ranges from 1400C to 180 C. The reaction may be conducted in batch or continuous reactors designed to maintain the dispersants in a liquid state under superatmospheric pressure and at the elevated reaction temperatures. The reactors are suitably equipped or designed to provide sufficient agitation to uniformly admix the reactants and facilitate pasting of the polysaccahride. In continuous reactor systems e.g.continuous tubular reactors, helical coils, pipes, etc. , utilization of positive displacement pumps will generally provide sufficient agitation for this purpose. Such displacement pumps also afford a means for metering into the feed stream the appropriate reactant and liquid dispersant levels and regulating residence time and flow rates through the reaction zone. In such systems, the reaction media is continuously forced through the reaction zone under positive pressure by continuously metering into the feed stream the required reactants, liquid dispersant and catalyst concentration for the conversion reaction. Propeller, turbine, sweep, anchor or other appropriate agitating means, are generally applied to batch reactor systems.The reactors continuous or batch are also suitably equipped with heating and cooling means e.g. steam, r ..inoral baths to maintain the reactants and reaction products at the appropriate processing temperature.If desired, continuous reactors may be constructed so as to provide a plurality of zones operated at different temperatures. Zoncs opera ted at reduced tenlperattlrest following the polysaccharide posting step, may be designed into the reactor systern. The catalyst may be incorporated into the feed slurry or alternatively as a fixed catalyst bed. After the conversion reaction has been completed, the chemical reaction may be terminated by conventional techniques such as cooling, by adding base to neutralize the catalyst, removal of the reaction product from the catalyst system, etc. If desired, the glycoside mixture may be fractionated such as by adding a precipitating solvent, concentrating and or cooling to selectively cyrstallize one or more of the glycoside components from the reaction product, etc. Volatile components may be suitably stripped from the glycoside mixture or fractionated by conventional techniques e.g. flash cooling, distillation, vacuum distillation , recycled and reused as liquid dispersant components. If a particular alkyl glycoside fraction is sought, the desired fraction may be recovered and the balance recycled to the reactor feed stream. Since the reaction is generally an equilibrated chemical reaction, such recycling can be effectively used to conserve upon the total reactant and liquid dispersant requirements for the alkyl glycoside manufacture by driving the reaction towards the desired end product production. The recovered lower alkyl glycosides may be used as an intermediate glycoside component in the manufacture of glycosidic surfactants. The liquid dispersant system permits the alcoholysis of polysaccharides to be conducted at lower processing temperature within a shorter reaction time interval and at a substantially lower viscosity. Effective alkyl glycoside production requires the polysaccharide to be sufficiently dispersed so that it may then be interchanced with the alcohol reactant. The present invention provides a means for cfftivcly pasting starches and conducting the alcoholysis reaction at a reduced temperature. The lower reaction tcpertre reduces the level of undesirable reaction by products and repolymerization of the lover D.P. glycosides into the higher D.P. oligosaccharide reaction products. Another advantage of the present invention is that the process can be conducted at lover viscosities than normal for polysaccharide reactants.. These reduced working viscosities permit a broader range of processing equipment to be effectively used in the alkyl glycoside manufacture. Product yields and quality are also facilitated by avoiding excessively viscous reaction conditions. Many polysaccharides, such as starch, when subjected to elevated temperatures and shear will exhibit an increase in viscosity until the starch pasting temperature has been achieved, after which the solution viscosity will decrease as the pasted polysaccharide. components become uniformly dispersed or dissolved throughout the reaction medium.The pasting temperature, time interval required to. achieve the peak viscosity and the peak viscosity duration are directly related to the efficacy of the liquid dispersant system. The liquid dispersant system of this invention effectively reduces both the peak viscosity and its duration. In a continuous operation conducted under pressurized or superatmospheric conditions, the starch reactants attain a peak viscosity at an acceptable viscosity level within a short time interval and readily disperse within the media at a sufficiently low solution viscosity level to permit effective interchange with the higher alcohol reactant. In a conventional process, a low concentration of polysaccharide is usually required to provide a reaction media of an acceptable and manageable viscosity level.The liquid dispersant system of this invention permits the manufacttirer to significantly increase the polysaccharide concentration while still operating at a manageable solution viscosity level. This permits the manufacturer to achieve greater yields and productivity. Reactor fouling and the need for specialized process equipment to handle excessively viscous materials at elevated temperatures are alleviated through the novel liquid dispersant systems of this invention. The following Examples illustrate the use of this invention to.prepare alkyl glycosides EXAMPLE T A butyl glucoside mixture was prepared Run A by slurrying 15.00 parts by weight dry substance basis corn starch PFP in 84.74 parts by weight of a liquid dispersant consisting of 79.48 anhydrous butanol, 11.88 water and 8.88 anhydrous methanol on a weight basis and 0.26 parts by weight p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate catalyst 15 meq per mole of starch . The total water content, including that provided by the starch 12.0 by weight water and added water, was 9.96 of the total reaction mixture.A 2 liter stainless steel Parr reactor, equipped with an internal stainless steel heating and cooling coil, a thermocouple immersed in a glycerine well and operatively connected to a pyrometer to record the reaction temperature, a pressure release valve and two three bladed propeller stirrers mounted on a single shaft driven by a constant speed electric motor with matching Servodyne constant speed and torque control unit No. 4425 and recorder to record power changes in millivolts mV was used as the reactor. The reaction slurry was rapidly heated steam at 140 psig and continually stirred at 900 rpm. Upon reaching 1550C about d minutes after heating , the viscosity suddenly increased to the maximum recorded peak viscosity level of 172 mV. The 1550C temperature represents the peak viscosity temperature or the starch pasting temperature. Within two additional minutes 6 minute total time , the viscosity rapidly decreased to a level comparable to that of the original reaction slurry. The reaction was held at 160 1650C steam pressure of 115 psig for 10 minutes and then cooled within 14 minutes to 300C. The resultant light yellow reaction product 1066 g, 98.7 recovery was filtered to remove trace amounts of insolubles. The catalyst was then neutralized pH 7.0 by mixing a 124.63g aliquot of the filtrate pH 2.55 with 50 ml deionized water and titrating with 16.80 ml of 0.1N sodium hydroxide. The sample was then adjusted to pH 8.55 and allowed to quiescently stand for at least 16 hours and the pH was then readjusted from pH 6.9 to pH 8.5 with 0.10N sodium hydroxide. The free solvents butanol, methanol and water were then vacuum distilled 83 85 C at 19.25.5 inches mercury vaccum from the sample. A small amount of residual butanol 2 3 was then removed by redissolving the butyl glucoside residue in deionized water 100 ml and vacuum distillation.The total solids in solution and yields were calculated.Butyl glucoside distributions were determined on an aqueous solution of the residue by using HPLC high performance liquid chromatography . Glucose content was determined on the original filter sample via the auto analyzer method. For comparative purposes, Run A was repeated except that a 122 moisture starch Run B and a 5.8 moisture starch Run C were used without any additional water being added to the reaction media. Run A was also repeated by Runs D , E and F using different levels of butanol methanol water as recorded in Table 1.The reaction media for all the i ris were comprised of 15.00 starch dry substance, 84. 4 solvent water plus n butanol al methanol in a 0 10 ratio and 0.26 p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate. Table f1 summarizes the results f this study. TABLE 1 Effect of Water Level in the Reaction RUN A RUN B RUN C RUN D RUN E RUN FButanol, 67.29 74.43 75.44 63.54 60.20Methanol, 7.47 8.27 8.38 7.95 7.07 6.69Water, 9.96 2.04 0.92 5.29 14.13 17.85Water, moles per mole starch 5.98 1.22 0.55 3.17 8.48 10.71Butanol methanol water weight ratio 79 4 8.8 11.8 87.8 9.8 2.4 89.0 9.9 1.1 84.4 9.4 6.2 75.0 8.3 16.7 71.0 7.9 21.1Reaction Temp C for 10 min 160 165 171 176 176 179 168 172 156 162 155 160 Peak viscosity mV 172 500 600 265 130 114 C 155 170 176 164 149 144Duration, sec. 120 130 180 120 90 84 Solution ColorVisual Lt. yellow Red Red Yellow Lt. yellow Lt. yellowLight Absorbance commat 450 nm 0.12 0.38 0.79 0.23 0.09 0.07Total solids 20.9 21.0 20.4 21.4 20.6 20.6 Yield based on starch 138 138 134 141 135 135 Butyl Glucoside Distribution, Mono 53 59 59 56 48 43Di a 22 23 24 23 21 21Tri b 5 4 4 5 7 8Higherc 8 9 9 8 8 8Glucose, 12 5 4 8 17 21 a 10 of which is methyl monoglucoside b 10 of which is methyl diglucoside c 10 of which is methyl tri and higher glucosides As illustrated by the Table 1 results, excesses in water significantly reduces the peak viscosity, the peak viscosity temperature and the peak viscosity duration.The butyl glycosides prepared with more than 3 moles water for each saccharide unit mole collectively exhibited lighter colors than those made with less than 3 moles water.At the 17.85 water level Run F , a slight separation of the aqueous phase occured. A homogeneous solution was obtained by increasing the starch dry substance level to 17.5 . A slight separation of the aqueous phase was also obtained using a starch dry substance level of 16.8 and a butanol methanol water ratio of 67.5 7.5 25.0. EXAMPLE II In this Example 15.148 PFP corn starch dry substance 84.60 solvent butanol plus water , and 0.26 p toluene sulfonic acid monohydrate were used to prepared butyl glycosides. Except as indicated in Table 2, the butyl glycosides were prepared pursuant to the procedure of xample I. Table 2 records the results. TABLE 2 Effect of Water Level Using Butanol as the Solvent RUN G RUN II RUN I RUN J RUN LButanol, 74.66 70.89 66.96 63.07 59.17 42.32Water, 9.95 13.75 17.64 21.53 25.42 42.28Butanol water ratio 88.2 11.8 83.8 16.2 79.1 20.9 74.6 25.4 69.9 30.1 50 50Water, moles per mole starch 5.91 8.17 10.48 12.79 15.10 25.12Reaction Temp. for 13 min. C 169 169 166 170 166 169 157 170 163 168 166 167Peak viscosity mV 156 155 149 148 140 100Temp. CDuration, sec. 120 84 54 48 36 108Butyl Glucoside.Distribution in Total Product, Mono 63 59 56 52 47 32Di 11 10 10 10 7 4Tri 5 5 6 6 7 9Others 8 9 8 7 8 9Glucose, 13 17 20 25 31 47 d 172 mV when 10 of the butanol was replaced for a butanol methanol water ratio of 79.4 8.8 11.8 Run A Under the processing conditions of this Example, phase separation occurred when the total water content was increased to 17.64 or higher e.g. see Runs I L . The yield of product in the water phase proportionally increased as the water levels increased until the 42.288 level ofRun L. The carbohydrate distributions found in the butanol and water phases for the Run I L products were similar as shown below. RUNS I L BUTANOL PHASE WATER PHASE Butyl Monoglucoside, 59 66 7 14 Butyl Diglucoside, 7 11 3 11 Butyl Triglucoside, 2 5 12 22 Others, g 7 11 4 10 Glucose, 12 19 55 64 EXAMPLE III Butyl glycosides were prepared at varying starch concentrations by employing the reaction conditions ofRun A A except as indicated in Table 3 with the starch being lnsfiersed into butanol methanol water of a weight ratio of 79.4 8.8 11.8, except for the 77.4 8.4 14.2 ratio of Run Q. Runs A, M and N were conducted at 15 meq catalyst per starch mole level with Runs O, P and Q at te 10 meq level.The results are tabulated in Table 3. TABLE 3 Effect of Starch Concentration Upon the Reaction RUN A RUN M RUN N RUN O RUN P RUN QStarch solids, 15 17 19 21 24 28Liquid Dispersant, 84.74 82.70 78.75 75.71 71.67 3.27P toluenesulfonic acid H2O, 0.26 0.30 0.33 0.25 0.29 0.33Water, moles per AGU 5.98 5.15 4.49 3.92 3.27 3.27Peak viscosity mV 172 165 200 Temp. C 155 159 157 127 157 155Duration, sec 120 60 120 Reaction Temp., C 160 165 167 170 166 170 159 162 157 163 155 163Reaction, Time, min. 10 13 13 22 20 25Reaction Solution, Color Light Yellow S1 dark Dark Light Yellow Ruddisch Yellow Yellow YellowTotal Solids 20.9 23.3 25.2 28.5 32.3 35.9 Yield based on starch 138 135 132 133 130 124 Brookfiled RVT viscosity cps 13 15 16 19 22 25Butyl Glucoside Distribution, Mono 53 49 51 47 46 44Di a 22 22 22 22 24 23Tri b 6 7 7 9 10 11Othersc 7 9 7 10 8 9Glucose, 12 13 13 12 12 13 a Supra b Supra c Supra. As illustrated by the Table 3 data, increasing the starch solids level from 15 to 28 1 increased the peak viscosity without changing the peak viscosity temperature, 2 gave more highly colored reaction solutions, 3 decreased yields from 138 to 124 , and 4 increased theBrookfield viscosity from 13 to 25 cps. The overall composition glucose and butyl glucosides , however, remained unaffected by starch solids level. EXAMPLE IV This Example illustrates that other alcohol soluble co solvents may be effectively used as a co solvent or replacement for the methanol of Run A. In this Example, the reaction media contained 15.1 corn starch dry substance, 67.2 butanol, 9.9 total water, 7.5 alcoholsoluble co solvent as identified in Table 3 and 0.3 p toluenesulfonic acid Except as otherWise indicated by this Example, the butyl glycoside preparation conformed to that of Run A. The results of this Example are recorded in Table 4. TABLE 4 RUN G RUN A RUN R RUN S RUN T RUN UAlcohol Soluble Ethylene Skellyco solvent None Methanol Ethanol Glycol Acetone solve FPeak viscosity mV 220 172 234 133 180 118Temp. C 156 155 160 153 155 151Duration, sec. 120 120 108 60 144 108Reaction Temp.10 13 min, C 166 169 160 165 167 169 165 169 156 169 156 170Color yellow light yellow yellow S1.dark red yellow yellowTotal Solids 22.8 20.9 21.7 20.1 21.6 21.8 Yield based on starch 149 138 141 132 141 137 Butyl Glucoside Distribution Mono 63 53 55 58 61 62Di 11 22 16 17 11 13Tri 5 6 5 6 5 5Others 8 7 10 5 9 5Glucose, 13 12 13 14 14 14 Higher peak viscosities were obtained when methanol was omitted Run 5 or replaced by either ethanol Run R or acetone Run T . However lower pea viscosities were obtained by substituting either ethylene glycol Run S or Skellysolve F Run U for methanol. EXA 4PLE V This Example illustrates the effect of stirring upon the reaction product. The liquid dispersant system for this Example butanol methanol water at 79.4 8.8 11.8 was prepared by slurrying 15.1 PFP corn starch in 67.2 butanol, 7.5 methanol, 10.0 water and 0.18 0.33 ptoluene sulfonic acid.H2O.The results are tabulated inTable 5 TABLE 5 RUN V RUN W RUN X RUN A RUN YStirrer speed, rpm 500 700 800 900 1200Peak viscosity mVTemp. C 156 156 157 155 159Duration, sec 48 24 48 120 30Reaction time at 160 169 C, min 13 11 12 10 13Insoluble residue on starch 41 29 0.15 trace 0.21 Total solids 16.7 18.5 20.8 20.9 22.3 Yield based on starchButyl Glucoside distribution, Mono 50 50 52 53 50Di a 22 23 22 22 24Tri b 6 7 6 6 7Othersc 11 8 8 7 8Glucose, 11 12 12 12 11 a Supra b Supra c Supra. Under the processing conditions of this Example, stirring speeds of 500 rpm Run V and 70 rpm Run W yielded relatively large amounts 41 and 298 of pasted but insoluble starch residues. The higher stirring speeds of 800 rpm Run X to 1200 rpm Run Y significantly reduced insoluble starch residues. EXAMPLE VI This Example illustrates the versatility of the process to different catalyst systems using the liquid dispersant system of Run A. In this Example, 15.0 ,PFP corn starch dry substance was slurried in about 67.5 butanol, 7.5 methanol, and 10 water containing from about 0.24 0.888 catalyst. Table 6 records the results of this Example. TABLE 6 RUN A RUN Z RUN AAA RUN AB RUN ACCatalyst p TSA.H2O H2SO4 p TSA.H2O MSA H Resin meg. 15 15 18.4 18.4 31.8Peak Viscosity mV 172 118 156 102 200Temp., C 155 156 159 155 167Duration, sec 120 108 90 60 228Reaction time at 169 170 C, min 10 13 13 13 20Insoluble Residue on starch trace trace 0.06 0.08 90Reaction solution color Lt. Yellow Lt. Yellow Yellow Yellow YellowTotal Solids 20.9 20.6 21.8 21.1 1.45 Yield, based on starch 183 135 143 138 89.7 Butyl Glucoside, Distribution, Mono 53 52 52 52 25Di a 22 23 23 21 21Tri b 6 5 5 5 14Otherc 7 8 8 9 25Glucose, 12 12 12 13 15 In this Example the catalyst employed for Runs A and AA was p toluene sulfonic acid monohydrate, sulfuric acid for Run Z, methane sulfonic acid for Run AB andDowex 50WX12 in the acid form for Run AC.The catalyst milliequivalents are based upon 162 g anhydrous glucose unit 1.0 mole of the starch. EXAMPLE VII The versatility of the process to different carbohydrate reactants using the liquid dispersant system of butanol methanol water at a ratio of 79.4 8.8 11.8 is illustrated by this Example. In each of the Runs, 15.1 carbohydrate dry substance basis was slurried in 67.2 butanol, 7.5 methanol, 10.0 a water with 0.3 p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate. The methodology of Run A was followed except as noted in Table 7. TABLE 7 Effect of Carbohydrate Moiety on the Reacton RUN A RUN AD RUN AE RUN AF RUN AG Acid Corn Maize Dextrin ThinnedCarbohydrate Starch Starch White Starch CellulosefPeak Viscosity mV 172 173 104 94 NoneTemp., C 155 155 148 160 NoneDuration, sec 120 48 48 60 NoneReaction time at 169 170 C, min 10 13 13 12 20Insoluble residue, on carbohydrate trace trace 0.1 29 94Reaction solution color Lt. Yellow Yellow Dk. Yellow Yellow Lt. YellowTotal Solids 20.9 21.2 20.7 18.0 0.8 Yield, based on carbohydrate 138 138 135 112 5.6 Butyl Glucoside, Distribution, Mono 53 51 51 49 36Di a 22 22 22 23 14Tri b 6 5 5 7 22Otherc 7 9 9 10 24Glucose, 12 13 13 11 4 a Supra b Supra c Supra e STADEX 60K, manufactured and distributed by the A.E.Staley Manufacturing Company, Decatur, Ilinois, U.S.A. f Solka Floc manufactured and distributed by Dicalite Div. Grefco., Inc., Los Angeles, California, U.S.A. The glycoside distributions of the reaction products for the waxy maize starch, whit dextrin and acid thinned starch hydrolyzate Runs were similar to those obtained from corn starch under Run A. The white dextrin Run AE had a lower peak viscosity but yielded a darker colored reaction solution. The acid thinned starch product Run AF also had a lower peak viscosity but not all the starch reacted with the alcohol as indicated by the 29 yield of insoluble residue. Similar results are also obtained by replacing the corn starch with an equivalent amount of dextrose or methyl glucoside. EXAMPLE VIII In this Example 173 grams of starch was slurried into 668.6 grams butanol, 74.3 grams methanol with a sufficient amount of water being added to provide a total of 8.7 grams water. Three 3 grams P toluenesulphonic acid catalyst was used. Run AH was conducted in accordance with Run A except as indicated in Table 8.Run Al was conducted by adding an additional 173 grams of starch d.s.b. 1.07 M to the filtrate of Run AH. InRun AJ an additional 173 grams of starch was then added to the Run Al filtrate. Table 8 records this study. TABLE 8 RUN AH RUN AI RUN AJMoles water starch mole 5.7 5.7 5.7Peak viscosity mV 165 120 64Temp. C 159 151 151Duration, Sec. 60 144 300Reaction Temp., C 164 165 156 160 153 159Reaction Time, Min. 11 13 13Reaction solution color Reddish yellow Reddish Dark RedTotal Solids 23.4 36.8 47.2 Yield based on starch 135 128 127 Butyl Glucoside Distribution, Mono 53 44 37Di a 25 24 23Tri b 6 11 14Othersc 5 10 14Glucose, a Supra b Supra c Supra. As illustrated by the Table 8 data, PFP corn starch can be reacted with butanol Run AH then the resultant excess butanol in the butyl glucoside reaction product can be further reacted with an additional molar equivalency of 173 gram starch Run AI followed by the addition of another 173 grams of starch to the reaction product ofRun Al. A solution colour increase with a slight decrease in yields was observed with each successive run.. The concentration of monoglucoside decreases from 53 to 37 while the triglucoside content increases from 6 to 158. The change in D.P.4 and higher saccharide indicates that butyl glucoside made froR the previous runs further polymerized into higher DP butyl polyglucosides. EXAMPLE IX Other alkyl glucoside, besides n butyl glucoside, can be prepared by reacting PFP corn starch directly with the alcohol. In this example, isopropyl glucoside was prepared by reacting 19.00 parts of starch dry substance with 69.43 parts by weight of isopropanol 9.85 moles per mole of starch in the presence of 11.23 parts of total water 5.32 moles per mole of starch and 0.335 parts of p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate. The reaction was carried out using the equipment and procedure of ExampleI with the following reaction parameters and results peak viscosity of 254 m 1J, peak viscosity temperature of 1560C., peak viscosity duration of 300 seconds, and redaction temperature cf 164 1690C. for 13 minutes. A trace amount of insoluble material was remoed from the reddish isopropyl glucoside solution. The solution contained 23.50 total solids. The total solids yield on starch d.s.b. was 124 . The product ccntained 19 glucose and the isopropyl glucoside distribution was 49 mcno , 18 di , 3 tri and 11 others.