# Wheel means for container handling.

## Abstract
Wheel means for mounting beneath a container to allow the container to be moved is disclosed. Presently, there is no device known to me which will allow a container to be conve niently moved once deposited in a warehouse or the like. The wheel means 10 comprises a ground engaging means 22, 100 preferably in the form of a wheel 22 or roller assem by 100 swivellably connected to a locking and locating device 36, 26, 112, 131 . The locking and locating device may be a rod and lug 36, 26 or two plates 112, 131 which engage in the bottom of the container to lock the wheel means 10 beneath the container. The container may be moved by rolling the container on the wheel means. A loading and unloading device is also disclosed compris ing a ramp 46, 48, 50 which allows the container to be rolled onto and off a truck or the like.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A wheel means 10 for mounting with a corner aperture of a container, characterised by a base plate 12,, 111 having a ground engaging means 22, 100 coupled to the underside thereof and a locating and locking device 36, 26, 112, 131 attached to the upper side thereof, said locating and locking device 36, 26, 112, 131 being arranged to engage with the corner aperture of the container. 2. A wheel means according to claim 1, wherein said ground engaging means 22, 100 is swivellable relative to the locking and locating means 36, 26, 112, 131 . 3. A wheel means according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said locking and locating device comprises a lug 26 having an upright portion 32 and a substantially horizontal portion 30 being for locating the lug 26 in an underside aperture of container and the upright portion being for locking the lug 26 in the underside aperture to thereby engage the wheel means with the corner aperture of the container. 4. A wheel means according to claim 3, wherein the upright portion 32 has an opening therein for receiving a pin 36 inserted through a side or end aperture of the container to secure the upright portion. 5. A wheel means according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the locating and locking device comprises a locking plate 131 and a locating plate 112 , said locating plate 112 being mounted for rotation relative to the base plate 111 and said locking plate 131 being fixed relative to the base plate 111 such that said base plate 111 may be rotated to cause the locating plate 112 to remain fixed in an underside aperture of the container and the locking plate 131 is rotated with the base plate to lock in the underside aperture. 6. A wheel means according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the locking and locating device 36, 26, 112, 131 is mounted on the base plate 12, 111 by a shaft 24, 118 which passes through the locking and locating device 36, 26, 112, 131 and the base plate 12, 111 . 7. A wheel means according to claim 6, wherein the shaft 24, 118 terminates in a taper bearing 117 disposed between the base plate 12, 111 and the ground engaging means 22, 100 . 8. A wheel means according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the ground engaging means comprises a wheel 22 . 9. A wheel means according to claim 8 wherein the wheel 22 is mounted between a pair of flanges 20 by an axle and coupled by a mounting plate 18 connected to the flanges 20 to the base plate 12 . 10. A wheel means according to any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the ground engaging means comprises a roller assembly 100 . 11. A wheel means according to claim 10, wherein the roller assembly comprises a plurality of rollers 124 to 127 mounted between a pair of flanges 122, 130 and which flanges 122, 130 are coupled to the base plate 111 by an upper plate 123 . 12. A wheel means according to claim 11, wherein the rollers 124 to 127 are provided with a caterpillar track. 13. A system for unloading containers from transporters so that the unloaded containers can be moved, characterised by releasably mounting wheels in side apertures adjacent each corner of the container on a transporter, backing the container and transporter towards a supporting means 52 , said supporting means comprises two parallel horizontally spaced apart rail members 50 with a ramp surface 46, 48 at each end, so as to cause the wheels to engage with the ramp surfaces at one end of the supporting means and to ride thereup and to lift the container onto the supporting means 52 , attaching wheel means 10 , to the underside corner apertures of the container, and allowing the container to ride down the ramp surfaces 46, 48 at the other end of the supporting means to floor level whereby the container is supported on the wheel means 10 . 14. A system for loading containers onto transporters characterised by releasably mounting wheels in side apertures adjacent each corner of the container and also mounting wheel means 10 at the corner aperture, moving.the container towards a supporting means 52 , said supporting means 52 comprising two parallel horizontally spaced apart rail members 50 with a ramp surface 46, 48 at each end, so as to cause the wheels to engage with the ramp surfaces at one end of the supporting means 42 and to ride thereup and to lift the container onto the supporting means, allowing the container to ride up the ramp surfaces and onto a transporter. 15. A system according to claims 13 or 14, wherein the wheel means 10 are wheel means according to any one of claims 1 to 12.

## Description
WHEEL MEANS FOR CONTAINER HANDLING The present invention relates to handling of containers. Containers are increasingly coming into use for the transport of materials. At the present time there is no practical system available for readily moving containers once they are unloaded from a transporter such as a truck or a railway flat car. This can cause problems in warehouses where it is desired to move a container from one location to another. The present invention provides wheel means for attachment to the underside of a container to enable the container to be moved. The present invention also provides a system for unloading containers from transporters in such a way that the unloaded containers can be moved. Containers conventionally comprise a plurality of apertures adjacent each corner. Typically, the containers have a corner block at each corner, each corner block comprising an under aperture, an end aperture and a side aperture. The apertures in the corner blocks are normally used for such purposes as attachment to the transporter during transportation and for attachment of crane hooks when the containers are being lifted. The present invention provides a wheel means arranged to be mounted with a corner aperture of a container, comprising a base plate having ground engaging means coupled to the underside thereof and a locating and locking device attached to the upper side thereof, said locating and locking device being arranged to engage with the corner aperture of the container. In use, a wheel means of the present invention is attached to each corner of the container and the container can be moved around at will such as by means of a forklift truck. The ground engaging means may be a plurality of rollers. The rollers may have a caterpillarlike track or belt thereabout or may engage the ground themselves. Alternatively, the ground engaging means may be wheels Preferably, the ground engaging means is swivellable relative to the locking and locating device. I have found that when the ground engaging means is in the form of the plurality of rollers, the weight of the containers when supported by the wheel means, is better distributed and causes less fatigue in the wheel means. Hence, this embodiment is more suitable for moving heavy containers. Preferably, the locking and locating device is a lug, the wheel means having means for securing the lug in the underside aperture of a container, which securing means is arranged to be inserted in a side or end corner of a container to engage with the lug. Alternatively, the locating and locking device may comprise a locating and locking plate which are rotatable relative to one another for engagement within the underside aperture of the container. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a system for unloading containers from transporters so that the unloaded containers can be moved, which comprises releasably mounting wheels in side apertures adjacent each corner of the container on a transporter, backing the container and transporter towards a supporting means, said supporting means comprising two parallel horizontally spaced apart rail members with a ramp surface at each end, so as to cause the wheels to engage with the ramp surfaces at one end of the supporting means and to ride thereup and to lift the container onto the supporting means, attaching wheel means to the underside corner apertures of the container, and allowing the container to ride down the ramp surfaces at the other end of the supporting means to floor level whereby the container is supported on the wheel means. The invention also provides a system for loading containers onto transporters, which comprise releasably mounting wheels in side apertures adjacent each corner of the container and also mounting wheel means at the corner apertures, moving the container towards a.supporting means, said supporting means comprising two parallel horizontally spaced apart rail members with a ramp surface at each end, so as to cause the wheels to engage with the ramp surfaces at one end of the supporting means and to ride thereup and to lift the container onto the supporting means, allowing the container to ride up the ramp surfaces and onto the transporter. The present invention will now be described by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a front elevation of a wheel means in accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention Figure 2 is a plan view of the wheel means of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a side elevation of the wheel means of Figure 1 Figures 4A and 4B are two schematic views of part of the wheel means of Figure 1 in locked and unlocked positions Figure 5 is a schematic perspective view of a ramped container supporting means of the present invention for loading and unloading a container Figure 6 is a plan view of a drawbar of the present invention for loading and unloading a container Figure 7 is a front elevation of a manoeuver ing bar of the present invention for manoeuver ing a container Figure 8 is a plan view of the bar of Figure 7 Figure 9 is a side elevation of a bottle jack of the present invention for lifting a container Figure 10 is a plan view of two means of the present invention also for manoeuvering a container Figure 11 is a side view of a second embodi ment of the invention Figure 12 is a perspective view of a third embodiment of the invention Figure 13 is a side view of the embodiment of Figure 12 Figure 14 is a top view of the embodiment of Figure 12 and Figure 15 is a front view of the embodiment of Figure 12. In Figures 1 to 4 there is shown a wheel means 10 comprising a base plate 12 having a circular projection 14 attached thereto. A cup member 16 is rotatably mounted on the circular projection 14. Suitable bearing means such as a cone and bearing race is located between the projection 14 and cup member 16. The cup member 16 is attached such as by welding to a mounting plate 18. A pair of parallel flanges 20 extend from the mounting plate 18. The flanges 20 extend laterally away from the mounting plate 18 as can best be seen in Figure 3 and have mounted between them a wheel 22. A rod 24 seen in phantom in Figures 1 and 3 is secured such as by welding to the mounting plate 18 and extends through the cup member 16, circular projection 14, base plate 12 and a lug 26 on the upper side of the base plate 12. The end of the rod 24 adjacent the lug 26 is threaded and threadedly engaged with a threaded flanged member 28. The flanged member 28 is secured in place by a suitable means such as a plurality of screws not shown engaging in the lug 26. The flanged member 28 holds the assembly together by retaining the rod 24 in place. The wheel mounting assembly just described enables the wheel to be rotated in relation to the base plate and the lateral displacement of the flanges 20 gives the wheel the same movement characteristics as that of a castor wheel. The lug 26 is L shaped and comprises a horizontal portion 30 attached such as by welding to the base plate 12 and a vertical portion 32 extending from one extremity of the horizontal portion 30.The vertical portion 32 contains a circular aperture 34. In use, the lug 26 is inserted into an underside corner aperture of a container such that the horizontal portion 30 closely engages with the aperture. When this is done at all four corners the container can rest on the base plates 12 of the wheel means 10 and be readily moved around.The castor action of the wheels enables the container to be readily steered into any desired location. Before the container is lowered to rest on the base plates 12 it is preferred to retain the wheel means 10 in place by means of a pin 36 engaging with the aperture 34. Conveniently, the pin 36 is arranged to be inserted in a side or end corner aperture of the container to engage with the aperture 34. Thus, the pin 36 has mounted thereon a limit plate 38 for limiting the extent to which the pin 36 can be inserted into the corner aperture, a freely mounted elongated locating boss 40 for engagement with the corner aperture and a locking projection 42. The limit plate 38 is attached to the base plate 12 by a suitable flexible coupling means such as a chain 44, although a pivot joint could be employed instead. In use, the pin 36 is inserted in the corner aperture with the limit plate 38 in the horizontal position to enable the locking projection to be inserted see Figure 4B . The pin 36 engages the aperture 34 and the locating boss 40 engages with the aperture. The limit plate is then rotated through about 90 to cause the locking projection 42 to rotate to a locking position whereby the pin 36 cannot be withdrawn see Figure 4A . Preferably, the wheel means 10 are applied by the means to be described hereinafter. A side wheel is releasably locked into engagement with each side corner aperture of the container whilst on, for example, a truck. Suitable side wheels are described in Australian Patent Application Nos.12215 76 and 20169 76. Next the truck and container are backed towards a ramped supporting means as shown inFigure 5. This comprises a ramp surface 46 at one end and a ramp surface 48 at the other end with an intervening level portion 50. The supporting means comprises a pair of spaced apart parallel rail members 52. The side wheels engage the rail members 52 and ride up ramp 46. Backing is continued until the container is on the level portion 50. Initially, movement is imparted to the container from the truck by means of twist locks on the tray of the truck which are normally used for keeping the container in place during transportation. As the container rides up the ramp 46 movement continues to be imparted through the cab rack of the truck if it has one or suitably located vertical bars. The ramp 46 may extend to floor level but need not do so. It only has to be of sufficient height to engage with the flanged wheels while the container is on the truck. The ramp 48 however extends to floor level. The container can be backed down the ramp 48 as is so that it rides on the side wheels fitted to the side apertures.Preferably, however, wheel means 10 as described above are fitted into the four underside corner apertures and held in position as described above, when the container is on the level portion 50. Preferably, the container is backed down the ramp 48 by means of a draw bar 54 as shown inFigure 6. The draw bar 54 comprises a shank 56 having a pivot 58, such as a universal joint, at each end. At one end there is an elongated slotted member 60 arranged to engage with a twist lock on the truck. At the other end there is a twist lock 62 arranged to engage with a corner aperture on the container. In use, once the container is on the horizontal portion 50 of the ramp, the truck is driven forward a short distance such as until the back of the tray is eight feet from the adjacent end of the container. Two draw bars 54 are then connected between twist locks on the truck and end corner apertures on the container. The truck is then backed up so that the container is pushed by the draw bars 54 down the ramp 48 until the wheel means 10 are all in contact with the floor. The draw bars 54 may then be released and the truck driven away. Reloading takes place by the reverse sequence of operations. The side wheels and wheel means 10 can be removed if desired. The wheel means 10 can be removed by lifting each end of the container in turn such as by a fork lift truck. Preferably, however, this is achieved by means of a modified bottle jack which will be described hereinafter. The container when floor mounted on the wheel means 10 may also be manoevered by means of a manoeuvering bar 64 as shown in Figures 7 and 8. The bar 64 may be formed of a length of channel iron comprising a twist lock 66 at each end for engagement with end corner apertures of the container. In this way, the bar 64 can be mounted to an end of the container. The bar 64 comprises a plurality of apertures 15 in its upper and lower surfaces for receiving pins 66. The bar 64 also comprises an elongated slot 68 in its front surface. In use, forks 70 of a fork lift truck are inserted into the slot 68. The forks 70 are apertured and a pin 67 is passed through an aperture in the upper surface of the bar 64, an aperture in a fork 70 and a corresponding aperture in the lower surface of the bar 64. This is repeated for the other fork. When this is accomplished the fork lift truck is rigidly connected to the container and by steering the fork lift truck in motion the container can be correspondinGlY steered. If it is desired to remove a wheel means 10 whilst the container is on the floor, this may be accomplished by lifting an end of the container using a pair of bottle jacks 72 as shown in Figure 9. The bottle jack is modified by having a lifting arm 74 attached thereto through the nut 76. The lifting arm 74 comprises a pivot 78 on which is mounted a pivot plate 80. A twist lock 82 for engagement with a corner aperture of the container is mounted on the pivot plate 80. As the jack is raised, the pivot plate 80 is able to rotate slightly to accomodate the change in angle of the container as it is raised. The container on the wheel means 10 can be towed by a tow means 84 as shown in Figure 10. The tow means 84 comprises a pair of bars 86 pivotally connected together at the back of a tow vehicle at 88. Each bar 86 terminates at its rear end in a pivot 90. A twist lock 92 is attached to each pivot 90, and is arranged to be inserted in a side corner aperture of a container. The tow means 84 enables the container floor mounted on the wheel means 10 to be towed to any desired location. Referring now to Figures 11 to 15 which show alternative embodiments of the invention, Figure 11 shows an embodiment in which the locking and locating device is identical to that of Figures 12 to 15 and includes the wheel 22 of Figures 1 to 3. In Figures 11 to 15, a base plate 111 has a taper bearing 117 secured to the underside thereof. A locking and locating device 115 comprises a locating plate 112 which is free to rotate about a sleeve 116 having a shaft 118 therein and a locking plate 131. The shaft 118 terminates in taper bearings 117 so that plate 111 is swingable relative to wheel 22 Figure 11 or a roller assembly 100 Figures 12 to 15 . The upper end of the shaft 118 is held in the sleeve 116 by a nut 109 and washer 121.The plate 111 has a lever 113 which is rotatable in a vertical plane about pivot 151 out of a holder 162. The lever 113 acts as a handle for rotating the plate 111 and locking and engaging device 115 to lock the same in an aperture of a container. The locking plate 131 which is fixed on sleeve 116 is also fixed relative to the plate 111.Hence, when locking device 115 is located in an aperture and lever 113 is pivoted out of holder 162, the lever 113 may be used to rotate plate 111 so that the locating plate 112 is held captive in the corner aperture by rotating relative to the plate 111 and the locking plate 131 is rotated with the base plate 111 and is thereby held captive in the corner block in the aperture of the container. It should be noted that when the device 115 is positioned in the aperture, the plates 112 and 131 are aligned. When the plate 111 is rotated, the locating plate 112 rotates relative to the shaft 116 as the plate is rotated and the plate 131 remains fixed relative to the shaft so that the plates 112 and 131 take up the position shown in Figures 12 and 14. Fixed to bearing 117 is the roller assembly 100 which comprises two flanges 130 and 122 Figures 12 to 15 and flanges 20 Figure 11 are separated by an upper plate 123. The plate 123 is larger inFigures 12 to 15 because the length of the rollers are, of course, greater than that of the wheel 22. Rollers 124 to 127 are supported between the flanges 130 and 122. The rollers may have a caterpillar track or belt not shown thereabouts or alternatively, may project down beyond flanges 122 and 130 so that the rollers themselves contact the ground. The rollers distribute the weight of the containers more than a single wheel and result in less fatigue in the wheel means. Of course, it will be clear that the wheel means of Figures 11 to 15 can be used with the loading and unloading system of Figures 5 to 8. The embodiments of the present invention thereof provide a device which will allow containers to be moved in a warehouse as well as unloaded from a truck or the like.