# A process for coating a liquid photopolymerizable composition and a process for producing a printed circuit board thereby.

## Abstract
A process for coating a liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 , wherein a substantially transparent carrier film 2 having flexibility is coated with the liquid photo polymerizable composition 1 to uniform thickness, then the carrier film 2 is transferred, and further the carrier film is pressed at predetermined pressure to a base material 6 in a state where the coated surface of the carrier film faces to the base material 6 , thereby the liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 is uniformly coated on the base material 6 to predetermined thickness. By using the process, a photore sist, a printing circuit board and a solder mask can be produced.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for coating a liquid photopolymerizable composition, wherein a substantially transparent carrier film having flexibility is coated with the liquid photopolymerizable composition to uniform thickness, then the carrier film is transferred, and further the carrier film is pressed at predetermined pressure to a base material in a state where the coated surface of the carrier film faces to the base material, thereby the liquid photopolymerizable composition is uniformly coated on the base material to predetermined thickness. 2. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the carrier film is easily peeled off from a photohardened resin of the composition after photo exposure 3. A process according to Claim 2, wherein the carrier film is at least one selected from the group consisting of a polyethylene film, a polypropylene film, a polyacetate film, a polyvinyl chloride film, a polyvinyl alcohol film, a polyethylene terephthalate film, a polycarbonate film, a polystyrene film, a polyamide film and a film of a copolymer of vinyl chloride and vinylidene chloride. 4. A process according to Claim 2, wherein the carrier film is a polypropylene film. 5. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the base material is a rigid one. 6. A process according to Claim 5, wherein the rigid base material is at least one selected from the group consisting of a glass plate, a crystallized quartz plate, a metal plate, a laminated board clad with copper, a plastic plate and a ceramic plate. 7. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the base material is a flexible one. 8. A process according to Claim 7, wherein the flexible base material is at least one selected from the group consisting of a plastic film, a plastic sheet, a paper and a rubber sheet. 9. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the coating of the liquid photopolymerizable composition is carried out by a means selected from the group consisting of a doctor, an air doctor, a flexible blade,a knife, a reverse roll, a transfer roll and a curtain. 10. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the coating of the liquid photopolymerizable composition is carried out by a means of a doctor. 11. A process according to Claim 1, wherein, when the carrier film is pressed at a predetermined pressure to a base material, a rigid pressing means having a portion of small radius of curvature which converts the moving direction of the carrier film via the portion. 12. A process according to Claim 11, wherein the small radius of curvature is in the range of from 0.1 to 5 mm. 13. A process according to Claim 11, wherein the means is made of an article which has basically a shape of a square, a triangle or a polygon, or is fan shaped at the cross sectional view thereof, and further has a portion of small radius of curvature at the view, a transversal length of the article being larger than that of a carrier film. 14. A process according to Claim 13, wherein the article is made of at least one material selected from the group consisting of a metal, a plastic and glass. 15. A process for producing a photoresist image, wherein after the liquid photopolymerizable composition is uniformly coated on the base material to predetermined thickness according to Claim 1, further 1 an imagebearing transparency is located on the carrier film, 2 the liquid photopolymerizable composition is made to form an image of a photohardened resin layer by exposure to an actinic light through the transparency, 3 and then, after the carrier film being peeled off from the photohardened resin layer, 4 unhardened areas of the photopolymerizable composition are removed with a developing solution, 5 and thereby a photoresist image is obtained. 16. A process according to Claim 15, wherein the peeling off of the carrier film from the photohardened resin layer is carried out by a peel off roll. 17. A process for producing a printed circuit board having through holes, wherein 1 a liquid photopolymerizable composition is coated uniformly to predetermined thickness according to Claim 1, on both surfaces of the base material which has electro conductor layers on both surfaces thereof and on the inner walls of through holes, thus both sides of through holes being covered with the said composition like tents, 2 the liquid photopolymerizable composition on both sides of through holes are made to form images of photohardened resin layers by exposure to an actinic light through an image bearing trans parency, 3 and then, after the carrier films being peeled off from the photohardened resin layers, unhardened areas of the layer of photopolymerizable composition are removed with a developing solution, thus openings of through holes being covered with images of photohardened resins, 4 and further, the said images of photohardened resins being used as masks of the electro conductor layers, the unmasked areas of the electro conductor layers are removed by etching, 5 and thereby a printed circuit board having images and through holes is obtained. 18. A process according to Claim 17, wherein the electro conductor layers contain at least a copper layer. 19. A process for producing a photoresist for a solder mask in accordance with Claim 15, wherein a printed circuit board is employed as the base material and a heat resistant liquid photopolymerizable composition is employed as the liquid photopolymerizable composition. 20. A process for producing a reflection preventing light shielding screen in accordance with Claim 1, wherein a transparent glass plate is employed as the base material. 21. A process according to Claim 1, which additionally comprises, after exposure to light of the liquid photopolymerizable composition, a step for recovery of unhardened portion of the composition on the carrier film with a main device for recovery on one hand and a same step on the base sheet with subsidiary device for recovery such as an air knife or an elastic roller on the other hand, both steps following a step of peeling off of the carrier film.

## Description
DESCRIPTION A PROCESS FOR COATING A LIQUID PHOTO POLYMERIZABLE COMPOSITION AND A PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD THEREBYTECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to a process for uniformly and efficiently coating a liquid photopolymerizable composition on the surface of a base material, and to a process for further producing a photoresist image, a printed circuit board having through holes or a solder mask by exposing the composition to a light and removing unhardened areas of the composition with a developing solution.BACKGROUND ART Recently, a photopolymerizable composition has become to be used in various fields including relief for printing. For instance, some kinds of photopolymerizable composition are used as photoresists for producing a printed circuit board which is useful in the field of electronic industry. Generally, a printed circuit board is produced as follows. A liquid photopolymerizable composition suitable for producing a printed circuit board is coated or laminated to thickness uniform as possible on a base material of a laminated board clad with an electroconductive metal such as copper. After an image bearing transparency such as a negative film is located on the layer of the liquid photopolymerizable composition, the composition is partially polymerized and photohardened by exposure to an actinic light through the transparency, thus being made insoluble to a solution which developes unhardened areas of the layer and to a solution which etches an electro conductive metal. Then, after the image bearing transparency is peeled off from the photohardened resin layer, the composition in the areas other than photohardened areas is removed in a developing step. Further, the laminated board which, by retaining a photohardened portion thereof as it is and removing unhardened portion of the composition thereof with a developing solution, has bare portions of electroconductive metal, is etched to solve and remove the exposed portions. Furthermore, the remaining photohardened resin is stripped by a stripping solution such as methylene chloride and thereby a printed circuit board can be afforded. As sorts of a photopolymerizable composition as used for producing a printed circuit board as described above, there are that of solid type which is usually available as a film or sheet which has been already made, and that of liquid type which will be coated on the base material just prior to the use thereof. The comparison between the photopolymerizable composition of solid type and that of liquid type is as follows. In case the solid type photopolymerizable composition is used, although the composition is preliminarily formed so as to have almost uniform thickness and hence is good in processability, a portion of the composition which has not been exposed to a light can not necessarily be removed in a removing step with a developing solution and reused. Therefore, it is far uneconomical. Further, it is necessary to heat the composition and a base material in order to make the composition adhere to the material, and hence a heating apparatus thereof will be necessary, and thus a cost of installation is apt to become high. More further, in order to obtain enough adhesive strength between the composition and a base material just after both are made to adhere each other and laminated, a holding time is required during which a state just after the adherence thereof is maintained for a certain hours, and hence a continuous and efficient work can not be carried out and prospected. Still more further, when the surface of a base material is coarse, the composition and the material are apt to be hard to sufficiently contact and adhere each other, or otherwise when a dust attaches to a surface of a base material, the composition is apt to rise and float near and around the dust. Various defects as described above have been observed upon the solid type photopolymerizable composition. On the other hand, in case the liquid type photopolymerizable composition is used, in a transferring step of the composition to a step of removal after the composition is coated on a base material and exposed to a light, a portion of the composition which has not been exposed to a light can be removed by making the portion adhere to a material other than the base material by utilizing the tackiness of the unexposed portion and can be reused, and therefore the amount of the highly expensive unexposed portion which should be removed in the removing step, comes to be rather small. Further, accordingly, the amount of a developing solution which is used in the removing step will also come to be small, and hence the replacement of an aged solution thereof can be easily carried out. Thus the employment of the liquid type photopolymerizable composition is furnished with various advantages as described above. However, on the contrary, it is difficult for the composition to be coated on a base material to uniform thickness at a working spot, and it requires a skilled worker for the composition to be done so. Further when a base material is deformed, even by the worker it is very difficult for the composition to be done so. In these senses, disadvantages can be observed also upon the liquid type photopolymerizable composition. To overcome the disadvantages as described above, a technique as is described in U.S.Pat.No.4,087,182 was proposed. However, the technique relates to a process for controlling the total thickness of a carrier film, a liquid photopolymerizable composition and a base material, and it is not described and known in the reference that thickness of a liquid photopolymerizable composition is uniformly controlled in spite of ununiformity of thickness of a base material. The inventors of the present invention studied hard in order to solve the difficulty in coating a liquid type photopolymerizable composition on a base material to uniform thickness, which difficulty being a main defect of the composition which also has various merits from economical and processing viewpoints on the other hand. As a result, if a process for coating a liquid photopolymerizable composition, wherein a substantially transparent carrier film having flexibility is coated with the liquid photopolymerizable composition to uniform thickness, then the carrier film is transferred, and further the carrier film is pressed at predetermined pressure to a base material in a state where the coated surfact of the carrier film faces to the base material is adopted, even when a thickness of the base material varies along the transferring direction or in other directions, or the material is not shaping like a flat plate, or otherwise the material has some flexibility, it has been found that the composition can be uniformly coated on the base material to predetermined thickness. Thus the present invention has been accomplished. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a vertical cross sectional view wherein a liquid photopolymerizable composition is coated on a base material in a conventional method. Fig. 2 is a vertical cross sectional view showing a state of a photohardened resin which has been exposed to a light through an image bearing transparency in a conventional method. Fig. 3 explains process steps wherein a liquid photopolymerizable composition is coated on a base material or a board, exposed to a light, and thus a photoresist image, a board having through holes, etc. is formed or produced. Fig. 4 1 through 7 are cross sectional views, which explain variations of a base material and wherein a printed circuit board having through holes is produced from a board which has been clad with electro conductive metal layers on both surfaces thereof and on the inner walls of through holes. Fig. 5 is a cross sectional view showing a state wherein a heat resistant liquid photopolymerizable composition has been coated on the printed circuit board according to a conventional method. Fig. 6 is a cross sectional view showing difference between a photohardened portion and an unhardened portion of a photopolymerizable composition when the composition which is coated on a base material is exposed to a light through a mask film according to a conventional method. Fig. 7 is a plane figure showing a portion of one example of circuit board. Fig. 8 is a magnified figure showing a fused and fastened state of a solder around the circumference of the opening of a through hole which is shown as X inFig. 7 when soldering is carried out after a soldermask is formed on a base material, according to a conventional method. Fig. 9 is a magnified figure corresponding toFig. 8 when soldering is carried out after a soldermask is formed on a base material, according to the present invention. Fig. 10 is a cross sectional view corresponding to Fig. 6, wherein the composition is coated on a base material according to the present invention. Fig. 11 is a cross sectional view showing one exemplary embodiment having through holes in a base material as employed in the present invention. DISCLOSURE It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a process for coating a liquid photopolymerizable composition, wherein a substantially transparent carrier film having flexibility is coated with the liquid photopolymerizable composition to uniform thickness, then the carrier film is transferred, and further the carrier film is pressed at predetermined pressure to a base material in a state where the coated surface of the carrier film faces to the base material, thereby the liquid photopolymerizable composition is uniformly coated on the base material to predetermined thickness. A carrier film according to the present invention must have such flexibility that the film can be easily deformed along both of the machine direction and the transversal direction with sufficiently small force.Further, the carrier film should be substantially transparent, and preferably should be easily peeled off from a photohardened resin of a liquid photopolymerizable composition. The carrier film is exemplified by a polyethylene film, a polypropylene film, a polyacetate film, a polyvinyl chloride film, a polyvinyl alcohol film, a polyethylene terephthalate film, a polycarbonate film, a polystyrene film, a polyamide film and a film of a copolymer of vinyl chloride and vinylidene chloride, etc. A polypropylene film is one of suitable examples in that it has good natures in being easily peeled off from a photopolymerizable composition, in effect as a barrier against oxygen, in highly transmitting of light, and in a value of a refractive index being near that of the composition. A liquid photopolymerizable composition according to the present invention is a usually used photopolymerizable composition which shows fluidity at room temperature, and of which the viscosity falls generally in the range of from 10 to 200,000 centi poise at room temperature. When the viscosity is too high, sufficient fluidity thereof will not be shown and when the viscosity is lower than the range, the composition is too fluid.And the range of viscosity of the composition of from 100 to 50,000 c.p. is preferable for a practical execution of the present invention. As a preferred example of photopolymerizable resin composition to be used according to the present invention, there may generally be mentioned a composition comprising a prepolymer having a polymerizable ethylenically unsaturated group, optionally with a photopolymerization sensitizer, a heat polymerization inhibitor and or an ethylenically unsaturated monomer as a cross linking agent. As examples of the prepolymer, there may generally be mentioned polymerization products such as unsaturated polyesters, alkyd resins, unsaturated polyurethanes and oligomers of an ester acrylate type. In the present invention, the prepolymers may preferably have a number average molecular weight of 500 to 100,000. 1 More illustrative examples of the above mentioned prepolymers are given below 1 Unsaturated polyesters prepared from at least one unsaturated dicarboxylic acid such as maleic acid, fumaric acid or itaconic acid, and or its anhydride, and at least one polyhydric alcohol such as ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, glycerin, trimethylolpropane, pentaerythritol, 1,4polybutadiene having terminal hydroxyl groups, hydrogenated or non hydrogenated 1,2 polybutadiene having terminal hydroxyl groups, butadiene styrene copolymer having terminal hydroxyl groups or butadiene acrylonitrile copolymer having terminal hydroxyl groups, and unsaturated polyesters prepared from at least one unsaturated dicarboxylic acid or its anhydride as mentioned above, at least one polyhydric alcohol as mentioned above, and at least one saturated polycarboxylic acid or its anhydride such as succinic acid, adipic acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, phthalic anhydride, trimellitic acid or trimellitic acid anhydride 2 alkyd resins prepared by m odifying the abovementioned unsaturated polyesters with at least one drying oil and or at least one semidrying oil 3 unsaturated polyurethanes having additionpolymerizable unsaturated groups introduced by utilizing terminal isocyanate and or hydroxyl groups of polyurethanes derived from at least one polyol having two or more terminal hydroxyl groups and at least one polyisocyanate, for example, unsaturated polyurethanes which are prepared from i a polyurethane having terminal isocyanate and or hydroxyl groups and prepared from at least one polyol such as a polyhydric alcohol as mentioned above, polyester polyol or polyether polyol and at least one polyisocyanate such as tolylene diisocyanate, diphenylmethane 4,4 diisocyanate or hexamethylene diisocyanate and ii at least one unsaturated mono or dicarboxylic acid as mentioned above or its ester or polyester having active hydrogen atoms derived from hydroxyl reactive with the terminal isocyanate and or carboxyl reactive with both of the terminal isocyanate and the terminal hydroxyl and or amino groups reactive with the terminal isocyanate , and unsaturated polyurethanes obtained by linking two or more molecules of an unsaturated polyester as mentioned above with a polyisocyanate and 4 oligomers of an ester acrylate type obtained by the condensation of an esterification reaction system composed of a polycarboxylic acid or its anhydride and a polyhydric alcohol with acrylic acid and or methacrylic acid and having a number average molecular weight of about 200 to about 5,000, said number average molecular weight being controlled by choosing an appropriate molar ratio of the raw materials, examples of said polycarboxylic acid or its anhydride being adipic acid, isophthalic acid, phthalic acid and phthalic anhydride, examples of said polyhydric alcohol being ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, glycerin, trimethylolpropane and pentaerythritol epoxyacrylates, for example, esters of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid and a compound having epoxy groups obtained by condensation polymerization of a polyhydric alcohol or polyhydric phenol with epichlorohydrin or an alkylene oxide and polymers having, in its side chains, carbon carbon double bonds capable of taking an active part in the addition polymerization reaction, for example, polymers obtained by reacting an unsaturated carboxylic acid or its anhydride with a polymer having hydroxyl groups such as polyvinyl alcohol or cellulose, polymers obtained by esterifying a polymer or a copolymer of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid having carboxyl groups with an unsaturated alcohol such as allyl alcohol, glycidyl acrylate or glycidyl methacrylate, a polymer obtained by reacting a copolymer containing maleic anhydride monomer units with allyl alcohol, a hydroxyalkyl acrylate and or a hydroxyalkyl methacrylate, and polymers obtained by reacting a copolymer having glycidyl acrylate and or glycidyl methacrylate monomer units with acrylic acid and or methacrylic acid. 5 In the present invention, prepolymers other than mentioned above may be employed. Such prepolymers may be exemplified by unsaturated polyamides, unsaturated polyimides, unsaturated polyethers, unsaturated polyacrylates, unsaturated polymethacrylates, various rubbers and the like. Further, in the present invention, there may be employed, as the prepolymers, compounds having no ethylenic double bonds which may be photopolymerized by a mechanism not attributed to ethylenic double bonds. 2 The ethylenically unsaturated monomer as a cross linking agent which may be optionally used in the photopolymerizable resin composition, may be exemplified by commonly known ethylenically unsaturated monomers as follows 1 unsaturated carboxylic acids such as acrylic acid and methacrylic acid, or esters thereof, for example, alkyl acrylate, alkyl methacrylate, cycloalkyl acrylate, cycloalkyl methacrylate, alkyl halide acrylate, alkyl halide methacrylate, alcoxyalkyl acrylate, alcoxyalkyl methacrylate, hydroxyalkyl acrylate, hydroxyalkyl methacrylate, aminoalkyl acrylate, aminoalkyl methacrylate, tetrahydrofurfuryl acrylate, tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate, alkyl acrylate, allyl methacrylate, glycidyl acrylate, glycidyl methacrylate, benzyl acrylate, benzyl methacrylate, phenoxy acrylate, phenoxy methacrylate, mono or di acrylate of alkylene glycol, mono or dimethacrylate or alkylene glycol, mono or di acrylate of polyoxyalkylene glycol, mono or di methacrylate of polyoxyalkylene, trimethylolpropane triacrylate, trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate, pentaerythritol tetraacrylate, pentaerythritol tetramethacrylate 2 acrylamides and methacrylamides, or derivatives thereof, for example, an acrylamide N substituted with an alkyl or hydroxyalkyl group, a methacrylate N substituted with an alkyl or hydroxyalkyl group, an acrylate N,N disubstituted with alkyl and or hydroxyalkyl groups, a methacrylate N,N disubstituted with alkyl and or hydroxyalkyl groups, diacetone acrylamide, diacetone methacrylamide, N ,N alkylene bis acrylamide, and N,N alkylenebis methacrylamide 3 allyl compounds such as allyl alcohol, allyl isocyanate, diallyl phthalate and triallyl cyanurate 4 maleic acid, maleic anhydride and fumaric acid, and esters thereof, for example, mono or di alkylmaleate, mono or di alkyl fumarate, mono or di haloalkyl maleate, mono or di haloalkyl fumarate, mono or di alkoxyalkyl maleate, mono or di alkoxyalkyl numerate and 5 other unsaturated compounds such as styrene, vinyltoluene, divinylbenzene, N vinylcarbazole and Nvinylpyrrolidone. They may be used either alone or in combination. When they are employed in combination, an azide compound may be incorporated into the ethylenically unsaturated monomers.Such an azide compound may be exemplified by 4,4 diazidostilbene, p phenylenebisazido, 4, 4 diazidobenzophenone, 4,4 diazidodiphenylmethane, 4,4 diazidochalcone, 2 ,6 di 4 azidobenzal cyclohexanone, 4,4 diazidostilbene a carboxylic acid, 4,4 diazidodiphenyl, disodium salt of 4,4 diazidostilbene 2,2 disulfonic acid and the like. The amount of the ethylenically unsaturated monomer which may be optionally incorporated into the above mentioned prepolymer may usually be 200 parts or less by weight per 100 parts by weight of the prepolymer. 3 Various photopolymerization sensitizers as commonly used can be optionally employed in the photopolymerizable resin composition. Specific examples of such sensitizers include benzoin, benzoin ethyl ether, benzoin n propyl ether, benzoin isopropyl ether, benzoin isobutyl ether, 2, 2 dimethoxy 2 phenylacetophenone, benzophenone, benzil, diacetyl, diphenyl sulfide, eosin, thionine, 9,10 anthraquinone, 2 ethyl 9, lO anthraquinone, Michler s ketone 4,4 bis dimethylamino benzophenone and the like. They may be used either alone or in combination. The amount of any photopolymerizable sensitizer is such as will be effective for polymerization, i.e., 0.001 to 10 by weight based on the photopolymerizable resin composition. 4 The heat polymerization inhibitor optionally employed in the photopolymerizable resin composition may be exemplified by hydroquinone, tert butylhydroquinone, benzoquinone, 2,5 diphenyl p benzoquinone, picric acid, di p fluorophenylamine, p methoxyphenol, 2,6 di tertbutyl p cresol and the like. They may be used either alone or in combination. The amount of any heat polymerization inhibitor is such as will be effective for inhibiting heat polymerization, i.e., 0.005 to 5.0 by weight based on the prepolymer or the total weight of the prepolymer and the ethylenically unsaturated monomer. Photopolymerizable compositions other than mentioned above, for example, a composition comprising polyethylene, polythiol and a photopolymerization sensitizer as disclosed in U.K. Pat. No. 1,251,232 may also be employed in the present invention A base material according to the present invention is a material such as a plate, a sheet or a film upon which the liquid photopolymerizable composition as described above is coated and made to adhere so as to exhibit substantial functions of the composition. The base material is exemplified by a rigid material which has enough shape retainability not to be deformed with human power, including a glass plate, a crystallized quartz plate, a metal plate, a laminated board clad with copper, a plastic plate and a ceramic plate, etc. and exemplified by a flexible material which is easily bendable including a plastic film, a plastic sheet, a paper and a rubber sheet, etc. A thickness of a liquid photopolymerizable composition to be coated on a carrier film is preferably in the range of from about 10 p to about 2 mm, considering the purpose of the present invention that the composition is transferred from on a carrier film to on a base material. And a carrier film being coated with the composition to uniform thickness according to the present invention means that generally a fluctuation of the thickness should be controlled within about 10 of the thickness. A means to coat the composition to a carrier film to uniform thickness is exemplified by a doctor, an air doctor, a flexible blade, a knife, a reverse roll, a transfer roll and a curtain, etc. A suitable means is usually adopted from these means depending upon the properties of the composition employed. A pressure at which a carrier film is pressed to a base material according to the present invention is preferably in the range of from about 0.01 to 10 Kg cm2gauge. And a fluctuation of the pressure preferably should be controlled within about 10 of the predetermined pressure. In order that the carrier film is pressed to a base material at predetermined pressure, a rigid press ing means is preferably employed. The means is preferably made of an article which has basically a shape of a square, a triangle or a polygon, or is fan shaped, or is circular like a roll at the cross sectional view thereof and further has a portion of small radius of curvature at the view, a transversal length of the article being larger than that of a carrier film. The small radius of curvature is preferably in the range of from 0.1 to 5 mm. When the radius is larger than 5 mm, air bubbles are apt to be introduced into a liquid photopolymerizable composition during the lamination of the composition and a base material, and when the radius is smaller than 0.1 mm, the portion having the radius of curvature is inclined not to show its substantial function. The article is preferably made of a material of a metal, a plastic, especially an engineering plastic, glass or others. Exposure to a light of a liquid photopolymerizable composition according to the present invention is carried out by irradiating with an actinic light the composition coated on a base material through a carrier film and an image bearing transparency located on an opposite side of the base material, as is usually carried out. The light employed in the present invention is exemplified by a high pressure mercury lamp, an ultrahigh pressure mercury lamp, an ultraviolet fluorescent lamp, a metal halide lamp and a halogen lamp, a pulsed xenon lamp, a carbon arc lamp, and the like. On an employment of these lamps, generally light having, a wavelength of from 300 to 400 mp is effective and usually used for exposure of the composition, although the values or ranges of wavelength employed depend specifically upon a sort of the composition used. In order to peel off a carrier film from a photo hardened resin layer, a peel off roll is preferably used. Besides it, a peel off bar is possible to be used. As a developing solution according to the present invention , with which unhardened areas of a liquid photopolymerizable composition are removed, a solution which can easily dissolve or disperse the unhardened areas of the composition, is used. The developing solution is exemplified by a weak alkaline solution such as an aqueous solution of sodium borate, an aqueous solution of sodium carbonate, etc. a diluted solution of an anionic or nonionic surface active agent a ketone such as acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, etc. an ester such as methyl formate, methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, amyl acetate, etc. a chlorinated hydrocarbon such as chloroform, trichloroethylene, trichloroethane,methylene chloride, etc. an aromatic hydrocarbon such as benzene, toluene, xylene, etc. an alcohol such as methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, etc. a cellosolve such as methyl cellosolve, etc. A sort to be employed among these solutions depends upon a photopolymerizable composition employed. As an electro conductor of the present invention, generally copper is used. Besides it, other electro conductive metals including gold and silver can be used. As an etching solution of a plate of copper of the present invention, an aqueous solution containing from 40 wt. to 45 wt. of ferric chloride is employed. A printed circuit board as described in the present invention is a board to equip thereon I.C. an integrated circuit , an electric resistance and an electric condenser, etc. and to be usually and extensively used in various fields of an electronic computer, a correspondence machine, a television set and a radio set, etc. A solder mask according to the present invention is provided on a printed circuit board in order to cover and protect areas other than those to be soldered, and to prevent the areas from being penetrated into by solder on soldering and being get soldered. A heat resistant liquid photopolymerizable composition according to the present invention is a composition of which the polymerized and hardened layer can not substantially be deformed or broken at a melting point of an electro conductive and easily fusible metal like solder. Illustrative examples of the heat resistant liquid photopolymerizable composition are as follows 1 A prepolymer 1 unsaturated polyesters, alkyd resins, unsaturated polyurethanes, oligomers of an ester acrylate type, and or others Previous 1 1 through 5 as described above in the present Specification as examples of a prepolymer of the liquid photopolymerizable composition according to the present invention, or 2 a reaction product of an epoxy compound of bisphenol A type or F type with an acrylic acid or methacrylic acid, or 3 a reaction product of multivalent isocyanate with an acrylate or methacrylate having a hydroxyl group or others 2 An ethylenically unsaturated monomer 1 trimethylolpropane triacrylate, or 2 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate, or others 3 A photopolymerization sensitizer various photosensitizers previous 3 as described above as examples of a photosensitizer of the liquid photopolymerizable composition according to the present invention 4 A heat polymerization inhibitor optionally, various heat polymerization inhibitors previous 4 as described above as examples of a heat polymerization inhibitor of the liquid photopolymerizable composition according to the present invention 5 Additives 1 an adhesive agent phosphoric ester, or an organic acid, or others. 2 a fire retarding auxiliary agent antimony trioxide, or others. 3 a pigment various pigments exhibiting green or blue color, or others. A transparent glass plate according to the present invention is a glass plate which transmits substantially not less than 50 of visible rays and has a distortion of an image of within 5 when the image is looked through the glass plate. The glass plate is exemplified by most of commercially available transparent glass plates for a general purpose. A reflection preventing light shielding screen according to the present invention is a screen which functions to reduce a reflection of rays on the surface having an image, by controlling an angle of incidence of rays which can pass through the screen, generally within 500 to the vertical line to the surface. A stripping solution of hardened resin obtained from the liquid photopolymerizable composition is exemplified by methylene chloride. Besides it, a mixture of ethylene chloride containing 5 to 10 wt. of an alcohol such as ethanol can be employed. Further, an employment of an organic solvent such as methyl ethyl ketone can be possible, however it is not recommendable from the viewpoint of safety. A coating method of a liquid photopolymerizable composition according to the present invention is explained hereinafter referring to the drawing. In Fig. 1 and 2, 6 is a base material or a board , 1 is a liquid photopolymerizable composition coated on the base material 6, 4 is a means of controlling thickness of the composition to be coated on the base material 6 such as a doctor, 11 is an image bearing transparency or a mask film . In a conventional method of coating a liquid photopolymerizable composition on a base material, even if a basic material 6 has some unevenness of thickness originated in the producing step thereof, etc., the composition 1 is coated on the base material with a controlling means of the composition so that the surface of the composition becomes flat as shown in Fig. 1. Therefore, the thickness of a liquid photopolymerizable composition per se which has been coated on the base material 6 can not necessarily become constant or uniform. When the liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 which has been coated to ununiform thickness on the base material as described above, is exposed to an actinic light through an image bearing transparency or a mask film 11, because the amount of exposed energy is constant and uniform at any unit area of the composition, if the thickness of a liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 is small, the photohardened resin after exposure to the light will become thick on the side of the base material 6, and if the thickness of the composition 1 is large, a photohardened resin after exposure to the light will become thin on the side of the basic material 6, respectively as shown in Fig. 2. As these phenomena can be observed, exposure to a light with good effect can never be prospected. The observation of these phenomena is owing to the fact that the thickness of a liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 to be coated on the base material 6 can not be controlled constant and uniform. To improve such conventional methods as described above, the present invention has been accomplished, one example of which was shown in Fig. 3. In order to coat a liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 on a base material 6 by employing the apparatus of the present invention as shown in Fig. 3, first of all, a carrier film 2 is established on a rigid plate 3 to make the film flat, and further the film is supplied to a winding roll 14, via a guide roll 5, a pressing means 8, an exposing device to a light 10 and a peel off roll 12. A liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 is supplied on the carrier film 2 in a state where the film faces to the rigid plate 3, and further a base material 6 is supplied on a conveyor 7, and then the film 2 and the base material 6 are transferred substantially at the same velocity. Thus the composition 1 coated on the carrier film 2 to uniform thickness with a means of controlling thickness 4 of the composition to be coated which are exemplified by a doctor and a roll coater, etc.is transferred to just under a pressing means 8 via a guide roll 5. As usually the liquid photopolymerizable composition is a high viscous material of which the viscosity falls in the range of from 10 to 200,000 c.p., the thickness of the composition is not thought to vary on the carrier film 2. In this connection, as a pressing means 8, a regid one, a means shaping a roll having substantially resilient surface and a usually used metallic roll which convert the moving direction of the carrier film 2 via a portion thereof having small radius of curvature as shown in Fig. 3, are used. Additionally, 9 shows a spring which presses a carrier film 2 to a basic material 6 through a pressing means 8 at a predetermined pressure. Then, in a state where the coated surface of the carrier film 2 faces to the base material 6, the film 2 is pressed to the base material 6 through a pressing means 8 at a predetermined pressure. Thereby, the thickness of a liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 coated on the base material 6 becomes uniform even when the surface coated with the composition 1 on the base material 6 has unevenness to some extent or is not formed like a flat plate. Thereafter, a laminate wherein the composition 1 is laminated on the base material 6 to a predetermined uniform thickness and further the carrier film 2 is laminated on the composition, is exposed to an actinic light through an image bearing transparency 11 in an exposing device 10, and a given portion of the composition 1 is photohardened. Further, at a step of the carrier film being transferred, a carrier film 2 to which most of unhardened liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 is adhering, is peeled off by a peel off roll 12 from the base material 6 to which a photohardened resin 1 has bonded or fastened closely. Then, at a step of the carrier film being further transferred, most of the unhardened composition 1 is removed by a main device for recovery 13. Furthermore, unhardened liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 adhered to the base material 6 from which the carrier film 2 has already been peeled off by a peel off roll 12 is removed, at a step of the base material being transferred, by a subsidiary device for recovery 15 which is exemplified by an air knife or an elastic roller.Thus, most of a remaining unhardened liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 is recovered by the subsidiary device 15. Then, a base material to which an image of photohardened resin has bonded and fastened is transferred to a device for development 16, and there a further remaining unhardened composition 1 on the base material is removed by a developing solution which is ejected from a nozzle 17. Thus, a base material on which a photoresist image is formed can be obtained. Additionally, the explanation described above has been carried out only concerning the case where one surface of a base material 6 is laminated with a liquid photopolymerizable composition 1. However, the explanation about the process of the present invention is easily applicable to the case where a liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 is coated on both sides of a base material 6, by disposing a pressing means 8 as well as exposing devices to a light 10, peel off rolls 12, winding rolls 14,main devices for recovery 13 and subsidiary devices for recovery 15 at both sides of a base material 6 and further by locating nozzles 17 at both of upper side and down side of the base material 6. In order to produce a printed circuit board of which the field belongs to main use fields of a photoresist image formed by the process according to the present invention, a post treatment such as an etching or a metal plating is further carried out by using the photoresist image as is obtained as described above and by stripping the photoresist image with a stripping solution such as methylene chloride. Then, an excellent printed circuit board can be obtained. A process for producing a printed circuit board by employing a photoresist image formed by the process according to the present invention, exhibits various kinds of effects as described as follows. 1 As a photopolymerizable composition employed is a liquid type composition, even when a surface of a laminate clad with electro conductive metal is coarse, the composition can sufficiently extend to concaved portions of the coarse surface, and hence the adherence of the composition to a base material is very high. Resultantly, a printed circuit board having high resolving power can be stably obtained. 2 As a photopolymerizable composition employed is a liquid type composition, even though a dust or something attaches to a base material, such phenomena can not be observed that the composition can not sufficiently adhere to the basic material and a layer of the composition rises and floats from the base material, as contrary to the case where a solid type composition is used as a photopolymerizable composition. Therefore, a highly reliable printed circuit board not causing such defects as a disconnection or a bridging, can be obtained. 3 As a photopolymerizable composition employed is a liquid type composition, the composition can be coated and made to adhere to a base material as it is, and therefore it is not necessary to heat both of the composition and the material to make the composition adhere to the material, as contrary to the case where a solid type composition like a film is made to adhere to a base material. Further, the present invention does not require a holding time, during which a state just after an adhering is maintained for a given hours, and which is generally required, after the solid type composition is adhered and laminated to the base material, in order to afford enough strength between the solid composition and the material. Therefore, immediately or successively after a liquid photopolymerizable composition is coated or made to adhere on a base material, the composition can be exposed to a light which forms an image of photohardened resin.Accordingly, the processing efficiency of the present invention is exceedingly high. 4 As a photopolymerizable composition employed is a liquid type composition, a recovery or reuse of an unhardened photopolymerizable composition other than the composition which forms an image of photohardened resin is possible. Further the composition can be disposed and laminated in accordance with the size of a base material and by choosing a necessary portion thereof, and therefore a printed circuit board can be obtained inexpensively from an economic point. Thus, the present invention is furnished with excellent characteristic features. The following examples are included merely to aid in the understanding of the present invention, and variations may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.Example 1 By employing the apparatus according to the present invention as shown in Fig. 3, and employing a polypropylene film having a molecular weight of about 351,000 Alphan produced by Honshu Seishi Co., Ltd. having thickness of 20 p as a carrier film, and by making the film transfer at a velocity of 50 mm sec., a liquid photopolymerizable composition as the following was coated to the carrier film to a thickness of 55 p on a rigid plate.The photopolymerizable composition had been obtained by dissolving and mixing 2 parts by weight of 2ethylanthraquinone, 1.0 part by weight of monoimeth acryloyloxyethyltphosphoric acid and 1.5 parts by weight of phthalocyanine Green, to 100 parts by weight of a composition among 120 parts by weight of the composition consisting of 50 parts by weight of a reaction product of an epoxy compound of hisphenol A type and acrylic acid, 10 parts by weight of urethane methacrylate, 40 parts by weight of trimethylolpropane triacrylate and 20 parts by weight of 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate. On the other hand, by supplying a base material consisting of a laminate of glass reinforced expoxy resin clad with copper having thickness of 0.8 mm on one sur facetR1700, Matsushita Denko Co., Ltd. at the same velocity as that of the carrier film by using a conveyor, the liquid photopolymerizable composition was made to adhere to the base material of the laminate by employing a sponge roll as a pressing means. The laminate was exposed to a light of an ultrahigh pressure mercury lamp in an amount of 120 mJ cm2 through an image bearing transparency, the carrier film was peeled off from the laminate, and unhardened areas of the layer of the composition were removed with a developing solution of l,l,l trichloroethane, and then an etching of the copper layer with an aqueous solution containing from 40 wt. to 45 wt. of ferric chloride followed. Thereafter, by stripping the photohardened resin an excellent printed circuit board having line width of 60 p which we had desired to obtain, and which has no fatted line nor thinned line at etched parts thereof could be produced.Example 2 In the similar way as Example 1, by employing the apparatus according to the present invention as shown in Fig. 3, and employing a propylene film having a molecular weight of about 351,000 having thickness of 20 p as a carrier film, and by making the film transfer at a velocity of 70 mm sec., a liquid photopolymerizable composition as the following was coatedtothe carrier film to a thickness of 200 p on a rigid plate.The photopolymerizable composition had been obtained by adding 12 parts by weight of diethylene glycol dimethacrylate, 30 parts by weight of tetraethylene glycol dimethacrylate, 6 parts by weight of diacetone acrylamido, 2 parts by weight of photosensitizer of benzoin isobutyl ether and 0.03 part of heat polymerization inhibitor of 4 tertbutyl catechol, to 100 parts by weight of a prepolymer of unsaturated polyester having an acid value of 30 obtained by a condensation polymerization of propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, adipic acid, fumaric acid and isophthalic acid at a mole ratio of 0.12 0.38 0.24 0.14 0.12. On the other hand, by supplying a base material of a glass plate having thickness of 5 mm to be provided at a surface of a cathode ray tube of a television at the same velocity as that of the carrier film by using a conveyor, the liquid photopolymerizable composition was made to adhere to the glass plate by employing a metallic bar having radius of curvature of 0.3 mm on a transferring way of the carrier film as a pressing means. The laminate thus obtained as above was exposed to a light of an ultra high pressure mercury lamp in an amount of 300 mJ cm2 through an image bearing transparency, the carrier film was peeled off from the laminate, and unhardened areas of the layer of the composition were removed by spraying and washing at a pressure of 1 kg cm2 for 3 minutes an aqueous solution of 400C containing 1 wt. of sodium borate and 0.5 wt. of nonionic surfactant Code No. D 3 produced by Sanyo Co., Ltd. and then steps of post exposure, dyeing and drying followed. Thus, an excellent reflection preventing lightshielding screen for a cathode ray tube of a television having line width of 100 p and space between lines of 100 p could be produced. A process for producing a printed circuit board having through holes is explained briefly as follows. Fig. 4 is one exemplar embodiment of a process for producing a printed circuit board having throughholes. Into forming an image of photohardened resin la which will be employed as a photoresist in etching, at openings of through holes 6a and circumferences thereof on both surfaces of a base material of the board 6 and at desired parts of both surfaces of the board 6, by employing an apparatus having a structure as shown in Fig.3, a process as described above concerning a process for producing a printed circuit board by using a photoresist image is substantially wholly applicable. As is shown in Fig. 4 1 , on both surfaces of a base material 6 wherein an electro conductive metal layers are clad at both surfaces of the material and at inner walls of through holes 6a, a liquid type photo polymerizable composition 1 is uniformly coated and laminated to predetermined thickness, as shown in Fig.4 2 . Then, after a mask film 11 being located on a carrier film 2, desired parts of the composition 1 are photopolymerized and hardened by exposure to an actinic light through the mask film, and thus an image of photohardened resin la is formed, as shown in Fig. 4 3 .Further, a carrier film 2 is peeled off, as shown in Fig.4 4 , and unhardened areas of the composition 1 is removed by a developing solution, as shown in Fig. 4 5 , and thus only an image of photohardened resin la can be formed which is located at openings of through holes and circumferences thereof on both surfaces of a base material 6 and at desired parts of both surfaces thereof. Then, after removing a portion of electroconductive metal layer 6b which has not been masked by an image of a photohardened resin la, by etching the base material 6 with an acid or alkaline solution as shown inFig. 4 6 , and further by stripping an image of photoresist la with a stripping solution of methylene dichloride, a printed circuit board having through holes can be obtained as shown in Fig. 4 7 . A process for producing a printed circuit board having through holes exhibits various effects as follows besides what is described above concerning a process for producing a printed circuit board by employing a photoresist image. 1 As the process wherein a liquid photopolymerizable composition is coated to a carrier film to uniform thickness and then the composition is made to adhere and to be laminated on a base material, is employed, the composition never happens to flow into the innersides of through holes and can be uniformly laminated on the base material to predetermined thickness, and thus an image of photohardened resin will never remain in the throughholes when the image is stripped with a stripping solution. 2 As an upper surface of a liquid photopolymerizable composition which is laminated on the base material is covered with a carrier film, an image bearing transparency can be directly established thereupon, and therefore an excellent processability can be expected from the process. A process for producing a solder mask according to the present invention is explained as follows by comparing with a conventional method and referring to the drawings. A conventional method for coating a liquid type photopolymerizable composition hereinafter abbreviated as a liquid type composition to a printed circuit board hereinafter abbreviated simply as a board is fundamentally a process for coating a liquid type composition to a board 6 by a means of controlling thickness 4 of a composition to be coated so as to make the surface of the board plain and even, as shown in Fig. 5. On the other hand, the board 6 has at throughholes 6a and at surfaces thereof an electro conductive metal layer hereinafter abbreviated as a land 6bi and an electro conductive metal line hereinafter abbreviated as a line 6b2 which respectively composes parts of a circuit, and hence the surface of the board is formed like a concaved and convexed state. That is, a layer of the liquid type composition coated onto the base material 6 according to the conventional method has unevenness of thickness iti large, t2 small as shown in Fig. 5. When the surface of the liquid type composition 1 is exposed to a light in a state where an image of a mask film 11 is made to correspond to through holes 6a in order to prevent the portions corresponding to a periphery of land 6bi and the innerpart thereof at or around through hole 6a from being exposed to a light, a thickness of the coated composition is larger tri just in the outerpart of pheriphery of through hole 6a, and hence a photohardened portion la by exposure to a light is inclined to be formed like a shape not squared as shown in Fig. 6.Therefore, a solder mask which can be obtained by removing unhardened areas of the composition, makes bare the outer areas of the board than the periphery of a land 6bi of a through hole 6a, as is shown by the position of a border line lc between a photohardened portion la and an unhardened portion lb in Fig. 6, to the extent that the mask often makes even a line 6b2 bare. In this connection, exemplar sizes of some elements of a board are shown as follows usually awidth of a land 6bl of a through hole 6a is 200 , a width of a line is 100 , and a pitch of through holes 6a is 2.54 mm and a diameter of a through hole is 0.5 mm of 0.7 mm. Therefore, according to a conventional method, when soldering is carried out on a board, for instance, as shown in Fig. 7 by forming a solder mask, a fused and fastened solder 18 is often apt to make a bridge or a short circuit in the nearest line 6b2 as shown in Fig. 8.And therefore when we want to prevent such troubles as above, a certain secure distance is required between a land 6b1 and a line 6b2 of through hole 6a, and so a number of circuits per unit distance must be lowered down. Further, when a part of a surface of a board which is photohardened by exposure to a light has a concave portion and a convex portion, a polymerization degree of a photohardened resin will become ununiform, and hence partially a solder mask often rises and floats thereupon in soldering, because of generation of air bubbles owing to heat of soldering. In order to. repress such phenomena as above, a curing for 10 to 60 minutes at a temperature of from 100 to 2000C after exposure to a light and a removal of unhardened areas of a photopolymerizable composition has been necessary. More further, although a mask film 11 is figured to be established directly on a liquid type composition 1 in Fig. 6, generally such an establishment as above according a conventional method makes a repeating employment of a mask film 11 impossible and an adjustment of a position thereof difficult. On the other hand,akeepingof a mask film 11 apart from a liquid type composition 1 makes that part of a device more complicated and makes a projection of an image of a mask film 11 vague and unclear. On the contrary, according to the present invention, by employing the apparatus as is exemplarily shown in Fig. 3 as referred before, even if a board 6 has an uneven surface such as a land 6bl and a line 6b2, a liquid type composition is coated and made to adhere closely to the board 6 along the surface line by being pressed to the board. Thus, a thickness of the liquid type composition 1 on the board 6 becomes constant and uniform, as is shown in Fig. 10. Thereafter, the laminate wherein the liquid type composition 1 has been coated on the board 6 and further a carrier film 2 has been laminated on the com position, is exposed to an actinic light through a mask film 11 in an exposing device to a light 10, and desired parts of the composition 1 are photohardened. Resultantly, as a thickness of the composition 1 had been constant and uniform t3 along a concaved portion and a convexed portion of the surface of the board 6, aphotohardened resin la which has been obtained by exposure to a light does not exhibit a shape not squared, and accordingly a borderline lc between the photohardened part la and unhardened parts lb correctly correspond to a line formed by an image of a mask film 11. Further, as a mask film 11 does not stick to a carrier film 2 even when the former is directly established on the latter as is shown in Fig. 10, an adjustment of a position of a mask film on the carrier film can be easily and accurately carried out by employing a means to set the position such as a hole for registration. Furthermore, even after finishing steps such as a step for memoval and a drying step, as a thickness of a photopolymerizable composition is uniform ts according to the present invention, a distribution of a polymerization degree of a photohardened resin becomes uniform, and hence a curing of the photohardened resin is not necessary. If necessary at all, only a short time would be required for the curing. Thus, an excellent solder mask can be formed on the board 6. Additionally, the process as described above may also apply to the case wherein a board haivng already soldered parts 18 on a land 6bl of a through hole 6a is employed as the board 6 as is shown in Fig. 11. In order to solder the board 6 having a solder mask thus formed, in a state where some given parts are covered with protecting membranes, the terminals of parts are put into through holes, and then they are soldered by dipping or flow coating according to the conventional method. A fused and fastened state of solder 18 thus obtained is as shown in Fig. 9, wherein only a land 6bi of a through hole 6a is soldered accurately and no fear exists that the solder makes a bridge or short circuit with line 6b2, for instance. Additionally describing, it is effective in protecting the whole of surfaces of the board 6, especially in preventing an erosion of a line 6b2, to leave the solder mask on the board 6 as it was, even after the soldering. A production of a solder mask according to the present invention has such effects as follows. Firstly, thickness of a liquid photopolymerizable composition to be coated can be made constant and uniform. Secondly, it is easy for a mask film 11 to be established and be accurately positioned on a carrier film. Thirdly, unhardened parts lb or a liquid photopolymerizable composition can remain correctly except the parts which correspond to an image of a mask film ll, and therefore fusing and fastening with solder 18 can be carried out accurately at predetermined position employing a solder mask. Fourthly, accordingly lines 6b2 can be disposed densely on a board 6. Fifthly, a solder mask can be obtained which has no such trouble as causes it to rise and float on a layer of a photohardened resin on soldering because of generation of air bubbles. Sixthly, as a liquid photopolymerizable composition 1 can spread to almost all parts and corners of a concaved portion and a convexed portion on a board 6, the whole of surfaces except the parts to be soldered on the board can be completely be covered and protected. Seventhly, even when a dust, for instance, is attached on a board 6, phenomena can never be observed such as rising and floating of a solder mask on a photohardened resin as can be observed in a solder mask using a solid type photopolymerizable composition. Eightly, when a liquid type composition 1 adheres and is laminated to a board 6, only one time coating of the composition is sufficient, and an additional heating and a holding time are not necessary. Thus, immediate exposure of the composition to a light is possible, and accordingly productivity of a solder mask is extremely high. Ninthly, as most of unhardened parts of a liquid type composition 1 can be recovered and reused, and the areas of the composition to be coated can be freely adjustable in accordance with the size of a board 6, as contrary to the case of using a solid type photopolymerizable composition, therefore a high valued and expensive material of the composition can be efficiently used. As described heretofore, a process for coating a liquid photopolymerizable composition and processes for forming a photoresist image, for producing a printed circuit board having through holes and for producing a solder mask according to the present invention has various advantages and therefore the industrial value thereof is very high.