# Method for producing cube on edge oriented silicon steel.

## Abstract
An improvement in the manufacture of cube on edge oriented silicon steel the improvement comprises coating the surface of the silicon steel with a manganese bearing material prior to texture annealing, whereby secondary grain growth is inhibited during texture annealing to achieve reduced watt loss.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of producing cube on edge oriented silicon steel, characterized by reduced watt loss, including the steps of hot rolling, cold rolling with intermediate annealing and a final texture annealing, characterized in comprising surface coating said steel with a manganesebearing material prior to texture annealing and texture annealing said steel with said coating thereon, whereby secondary grain growth is inhibited during texture annealing. 2. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that said manganese bearing material is Mn N03 2. 3. A method according to claims 1 r 2, characterized in that said steel is serrated prior to texture annealing.

## Description
METHOD OF PRODUCING CUBE ON EDGE ORIENTED SILICXÇ STEEL This invention relates to a method of producing cubeon edge oriented silicon steel in the form of sheets is known for use in various electrical applications including transformer cores. With cube on edge silicon steel the alloy is characterized by secondary recrystallization in the 110 001 position, which is termed the cube on edge position. This material in sheet form has the direction of easy magnetization in the direction of rolling. In applications for this material, and specifically when used in the manufacture of transformer cores, the material is required to have reduced watt loss, because the consumption of electrical energy decreases as iron loss decreases. Reduced watt loss may be promoted by achieving fine secondary grain size during texture annealing. It is accordingly an object of the present invention to provide a method whereby during the texture annealing of cube on edge silicon steel the secondary grain growth is inhibited to provide a relatively fine grained material after texture annealing with reduced watt loss. Broadly, in the practice of the invention a silicon steel which has been conventionally processed by hot rolling and cold rolling with intermediate anneals is surface coated with a manganese bearing material prior to texture annealing and is texture annealed in the conventional manner with said manganese bearing material thereon. A manganese bearing material particularly suited for use in the invention is Mn3 N02 . It has been found that the presence of the manganese bearing compound during annealing inhibits secondary grain growth and thus reduces watt loss. This may be further enhanced it the steel is serrated prior to texture annealing.Although the practice of the invention finds utility with cube on edge oriented silicon steels generally, it is particularly adapted to steels of this type within the following composition limits in percent by weight Steel Mn C S Si B FeSX 14 .025 .045 .020 .060 .005 .040 2.70 3.50 .0005 .0030Bal. SSll .050 .080 .020 .060 .020 .035 3.00 3.70 Bal. By the practice of coating steel with a manganesebearing compound and texture annealing with the compound being present on the steel, said practice is believed to be effective for the purpose by diffusing manganese into the steel during annealing, which promotes primary grain coarsening by interaction with the solute sulfur, which sulfur would tend to inhibit grain growth. Hence a region is provided in which primary grain growth occurs and restricts the growth of secondary grains through this region. It would appear that the extent of grain refinement of the secondary grains after texture annealing depends on the spacing of the regions of. primary grain growth on the areas of application of the manganese containing material, provided that the width of the treated region is sufficient to act as a barrier to the secondary grains.This effect may be supplemented by creating similar barriers by subjecting the steel to serrating or the like. The silicon steel composition used in the specific examples, and identified as SX 14, was of the following nominal composition in percent by weight Mn S C Si B Fe .035 .016 .030 3.15 .0010 Balance Epstein packs of final normalized SX 14 composition, identified as Heat No. 154684, were coated with a water slurry comprising 300cc of water, 46gm. of MgO and 2gm. ofH3B03. This material with the coating thereon was then texture annealed in a hydrogen atmosphere in the conventional manner. Specifically, the texture annealing consisted of charging the material into a furnace at a temperature of 7600C 14000F heating at a rate of 100C 500F per hour to a temperature of 1177 0C 21500F , holding at temperature for 12 hours and then cooling to 6490C 12000F , at which time the material was removed from the furnace.One of theEpstein packs, prior to the above slurry coating, was painted with a mixture of 30cc of 50 Mn N03 2 and an inert thickner, which was applied in lmm stripes perpendicular to the sheet rolling direction at intervals of lOmm this painted coating was then air dried. .This Epstein pack constituted treatment in accordance with the practice of the invention whereas, the second pack was used as a control and typified a conventional pnactice. Following the texture annealing procedure, as described above, the average lineal dimension of the secondary grains of the conventional, control pack specimen in the sheet rolling direction was 13mm.In contrast, the average lineal dimension of the secondary grain of the specimen treated with Mn N03 2 in accordance with the practice of the invention was 7mm these grains it was observed were often separated by the aforementioned bands of smaller primary grains where normal grain growth was stimulated by the application of the manganese bearing compound. In a second specific example, a single Epstein strip of final normalized SX 14 composition from the same heat as in the aforementioned Example 1 was scribed with a metal scribe to produce serrations in the strip perpendicular to the rolling direction at intervals of loom. After the scribing operation, the strip was slurry coated and texture annealed under the conditions described above with respect to the first specific example. Following this texture annealing, the average lineal dimension in the sheet rolling direction of the secondary grain in the scribed strip was 9.5mum.