# Image transmission devices.

## Abstract
There is provided a compact image transmission and modification device comprising a base element defining on a first surface thereof at least one first array of locations having a first interlocation spacing and defining on a second surface thereof at least one second array of locations corresponding to the first array of locations and having a second interloca tion spacing, and a plurality of signal transmission means, each of the means associating a location of the first array with corresponding location of the second array. There is also provided means for imparting to the base element a continuous rotary movement about a rotation axis defined therein, to provide a scanning movement thereof, wherein the image modification produced by the device is substan tially a function of the ratio between the first interlocation spacing and the second interlocation spacing.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compact image transmission and modification device comprising a base element defining on a first surface thereof at least one first array of locations having a first interlocation spacing and defining on a second surface thereof at least one second array of locations corresponding to the first array of locations and having a second interlocation spacing a plurality of signal transmission means, each of said means associating a location of said first array with corresponding location of said second array means for imparting to said base element a continuous rotary movement about a rotation axis defined therein, to provide a scanning movement thereof, wherein the image modification produced by said device is substantially a function of the ratio between said first interlocation spacing and said second interlocation spacing. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of signal transmission means consists of light signal transmission means comprising optical fibers. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of sisal transmission means consists of electrical signal transmitting means comprising each input means arranged on said first surface in said first array of locations, and output means arranged on said second surface in said second array of locations. 4. The device according to claim 3, wherein said input means are constituted by photodiodes and said output means are constituted by light emitting diodes LED s . 5. The device according to claim 3, wherein said output means are constituted by liquid crystal devices LCD s . 6. The device according to claim 3, wherein said input means are constituted by charge coupled devices CCD s . 7. The device according to claim 1 wherein said first and second surfaces are planar surfaces which extend perpendicularly to the rotation axis and wherein said first and second arrays are planar arrays. 8. The device according to claim 1, wherein said first surface is located lateral of said rotation axis and is perpendicular to said second suiface. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein at least said first array is curved. 10. The device according t claim 1, wherein said first and second arrays are each constituted by at least one line array. 11. The device according to claim 10, wherein the pattern of said first and second arrays is cruciform, being constituted by at least four line arrays. 12. The device according to claim 11, wherein said line arrays are radially offset relative to one another by a radial distance equaling said interlocation spacing divided by the number of said line arrays to said pattern. 13. The device according to claim 1, wherein the ratio of the interlocation spacings between any three locationsIn said first array Is equal to the ratio of the interlocation spacings between the corresponding three locations in said second array. 1 14. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a source of light disposed adjacent said first array to define an object, whereby said second array defines a directly viewable image. 15. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a deflecting prism centrally mounted with respect to said axis of rotation. 16. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of beam splitters and color filters for breaking up the images to be transmitted into primary colors. 17. The device according to claim 1, wherein said second interlocation spacing is greater than said first interlocation spacing. 18. The device according to claim 1, wherein said first and said second interlocation spacing are equal. 19. The device according to claim 3, further comprising a plurality of optical fibers interposed between said first surface and said input means. 20. The device according to claim 3, further comprising a plurality of optical fibers interposed between said output means and said second surface. 21. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a positive lens system for enhancing the image to be transmitted by said signal transmission means.

## Description
IMAGE TRANSMISSION DEVICES The present invention relates to image transmission devices, in particular dimensionally compact image transmission devices. For the purpose of the present invention, an image transmission device is understood to refer to a device in which an optical image is transmitted from a first image surface via transmission means to a second image surface where it can be viewed and or recorded. During this transmission process, the original image is modified InasmuSfi AS it. m.ay...u.nd.er.go positive or negative magnification l.e., reduction , or zero magnification i.e., may be left unchanged in scale . The term image modification as used herein also covers intentional image distortion for aesthetic, coding or other purposes. A well known image transmission device is, for instance, a microfilm or microfiche reader, in which an object, in this case a transparency, is imaged and projected onto a screen where, suitably magnified, it can be viewed by the user.Conventional. readers of this type employ one or more lenses arranged .in. a.p.re determined spatial relationship with respect to the object. Now arsignificant difficulty with magnification systems employing lenses is that they are large relative to the dimensions of the lens or to its focal length, since their minimum dimension along their optical axis is limited by the relationship between the object to image distance and the focal length of the lens, which in turn is limited by its diameter. it follows that the bulkiness of a magnification system using lenses is one of the major limitations as to its usefulness. It has also been proposed to employ fiber optics in such and similar systems. More specifically, millions of individual optical fibers are employed to interconnect a multiplicity of points on a relatively small input grid to a corresponding multiplicity of points on a relatively larger output grit. The method of producing such an apparatus is to begin with enough fibers to define the desired output area. The fibers are heated and drawn until the area of the drawn fibers is as small as the desired input area.Utilizing this method, only magnifications up to five times can be produced in a compact magnifier, due to the technoiogical liiiitatiens inherent in the drawinS pren . Another serious limitation of this method is that any defect in this multitude of fibers is clearly perceived as a disturbing black spot. U.S. Patent 3 512 861 Schackert discloses an image transmission system in which a bundle of optical fibers is used to transmit an image from an image location A to a relatively distant receiving location B, in which system the number of fibers used can be much smaller than the number of image points demanded by the size of the image and the desired resolution.This is achieved by having one end of the bundle rapidly sweep across, or scan, location A, while the other end of the bundle scans location B, both scanning movements taking place simultaneously and in phase.This prior art thus makes use of the per se well known scanning principle by means of which, due to the relative sluggishness of the mechanism of hunian visual perception, there is created the impression of a simultaneity of image points, where there is in fact a sequenciality. This prior art, however, suffers from a serious drawback the above mentioned scanning movement is a reciprocating movement, either linear or or rotar y. Sonsequently, the scanning frequency Is limited by the inertia of the components taking part in the scanning, including the end portions of the fiber bundle. Moreover, the scanning movement is produced by a crank mechanism driven by an electric motor. Now, as is well known, such mechanisms produce a harmonic, i.e., non uniform motion which1 for each full revolution of the crank, reverses its direction twice, at which reversal points scanning speed is reduced to zero. The relatively low scanning frequency and non uniform scanning speeds are bound to produce an unsatisfactory output image.A further disadvantage of. this prior a rt resides in the fact that the two scanning motions are produced by two separate motors which are supposed to rotate in synchronism. Such motors are, however, liable to slip out of synchronism, and the slightest slip of this kind Is likely to scramble the output image. Also, the very fact that the prior art devices uses. two distinct sets of mechanisms, including two motors, to produce the oscillatory scanning motion and that, according to its main claim, the fiber bundle is of such length that its midportion remains substantially stationary as its ends are oscillated , makes it clearly unsuitable for the compactne s s envisaged by the present invention. Point by point transmission of an image is, however, feasible not only by transmitting light signals from a first image plane to a second image plane via optical fibers. It is also possible to convert the light as modulated by, e.g., the different densities of a transparency into electrical signals using photodetectors and leading these signals via electrical conductors to the second image plane. where they are reconverted into light signals by, e.g., light emitting diodes. It is one of the objectives of the present invention to overcome the limitations and drawbacks of the prior art devices and to provide an image transmission device the image modification of which positive, negative or zero magnification is not exclusively a function of the refractive power of lenses and the length of its optical axis, and which therefore can be accommodated in a relatively compact, flat housing. It is a further objective of the present invention to provide an image transmission device based on light optical or electro optical scanning and having a uniform, rotary scanning motion causing no inertial problems and producing a satisfactory, flicker less, high resolution output image. This the invention achieves by providing a compact image transmission and modification device comprising a base element defining on a first surface thereof a first array of locations having a first interlocation spacing and defining on a second surface thereof a second array of locations corresponding to the first array of locations and having a second interlocation spacing a plurality of signal transmission means, each of said means associating a location of said first array with a corresponding location of said second array means for imparting to said base element a continuous rotary movement about a rotation axis defined therein1 to provide a scanning movement thereof, wherein the image modification produced by said device is substantially a function of the ratio between said first interlocation spacing and said second interlocation spacing. The invention will now be described in correction with certain preferred embodiments with reference to the following illustrative figures so that it may be more fully understood. With specific reference now to the figures in detail, it is stressed that the particulars shown are by way of example and for purposes of illustrative discussion of the preferred embodiments of the present invention only and are presented in the cause of providing what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood descriptbn n of the principles and conceptual aspects of the invention. In this regard, no attempt is made to show structural details of the invention in more detail than is necessary MfDr a fundamental understanding of the inv ent i dn, the description taken with the drawings making apparent to those skilled in the art how the several forms of the invention may be embodied in practice. In the drawings Fig. 1 is a partially cut away schematic illustration of an image transmission device constructed and operative in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present inventlon Fig. 2 is a partially cut away pictorial illustration of an array defining the rotatable base element employed in the device of Fig. 1 Figs. 3 and 4 are respective views of the first and second sides of the rotatably mounted base element of the type shownIn Figs. 1 and 2 Fig. 5 fs a detailed illustration of a first array of locations defined on the first side of the base element Fig. 6 is a sectional side view illustration of the arrangement of signal transmission means Song one quadrant of the base element of the image transmission device of the invention Fig. 7 Is a cross sectional view of another embodiment of the image transmission device according to the invention Figs. 8 and 9 are a top view in partial cross section and a front elevation of the drum and its guide and drive rollers, respectively, of a CTR faceplate according to the invention . . .I Fig. 10 is a partly cross sectional side view of a first embodiment of the deviceaccording to the invention Fig. lens a vlew, to a larger scale, of the first surface and of a preferred embodiment of the first array Fig. 12 is a front view of the apparatus according to the invention, showing also the second surface and a preferred embodiment of the second array Fig. 13 is a block diagram of the electronic circuiting interposed between the first array and the second array Fig. 14 is a cross sectional view of a second embodiment including a lens system Fig. 15 is a schematic frontal view, in direction of arrow A in Fig. 14, of the array of photodetectors Fig. 16 is a schematic inside view, as seen in direction of arrows B in Fig, 14, of the base element of the embodiment of Fig. 14 Fig. 17 is a cross sectional view of another embodiment including a lens system as well as intermediate optical fiber transmitters Fig. 18 is a cross sectional view of yet another embodiment with a lens system, and based on reflected light imaging Fig. 19 is an inside view, in direction of arrows C of the base element of the embodiment of Fig. 18 Fig. 20 shows a schematic perspective view of an embodiment according to the invention, capable of producing colored images Fig. 21 is a schematic top view of the arrangement ofFig. 20 Fig 22 is a view to reduced scale, of the second surface and second arrays ofthe embodiment shown inFigs. 20 and 21 Fig. 23 is a schematic view of the underside of the second surface of an embodiment having final optical fiber transmitters, and Figs. 24 and 25 are a top view in partial cross section and a front elevation of the drum and its guide and drive rollers, respectively, of a CRT faceplate according to the invention. Referring now to the drawings. there is seen in Fig. 1 an image transmission device such as a microfiche reader comprising a housing 10 including a base element 12 which is rotatably mounted in housing 10, as by means of a bearing 14.A motor, such as an electric motor 16, which is operated by a power source, not shown is coupled to base element 12 by means of a drive ring or belt 18 which engages a suitably configured recess 20 formed in a surface of rotation of base element 12. Motor 16 is operative to drive base element 12 In rotation about a rotation axis 22 fixed in the housing.The speed of rotation may be fixed or variable and is typically 800 rpm. A light source 24, which may be any suitable conventional light source, such as aiprojection lamp, Is disposed in the housing, typically in atignment with rotation axis 22. A movable carriage 26 serves to hold an image defining device 27, such as a portion of film, is removably disposed intermediate the light sourc 24 and the base element 12 for providing a desired pattern of light.to the base element, thus defining an object. Preferably carriage 26 holds the images defining device 27 in close proximity to the base element 12. A handle 29 may be provided to move the movable carriage 26 in order to view a different portion of the image on the image defining device 27. Reference is now made specifically to Figs. 2 6 which illustrate the base element 12. The latter comprises a generally disk shaped body 30 which defines a first surface 32 and a second surface 34. The first and second surfaces 32 and 34 are in this embodiment parallel to each other and perpendicular to the axis of rotation 22. There are defined on respective first and second surfaces 32 and 34 respective first and second arrays 36 and 38 of light transmission locations. The arrays may have any desired configuration. In the illustrated embodiment, arrays 36 and 38 have a cruciform configuration centered on the axis of rotation 22, and constituted by four line arrays 37 and 39, respectively. The first array, 36 is illustrated in detail in Fig. 5 and Is seen to include a multiplicity of individual locations 80, each of which corresponds to the end of an optical fiber. The first arr a y 36 refe raSly comprises locations arranged in touching relationship with each other, such that their inter location separation is equal to the diameter of the locations. However, any other desired interlocation separation may be employed, both uniform and nonuniform. Resolution of the system is determined by the inter location spacing a of the first array 36 Fig. 5 and can be substantially increased by the simple device of radially off setting the separate line arrays 37 relative to one another by a radial distance equaling the interlocation spacing a divided b y the number off line arrays 37 to the array pattern, In this case four. This is clearly seen in Fig. 5, where the 3 o clock line array is contiguous with the center location 42, the 12 o clock line array is no longer touching the center location 42, and the 9 o clock and 6 o clock line arrays move progressively farther away.The number of distinct Uscanning circles described by the same number of locations is thus quadrupled. Obviously, the line arrays 39 of the second array of locations 38 must be similarly offset. Alternatively, the locations may be disposed at random interlocation spacings and any desired suitable pttern may be employed for the array 36, such as a spiral. It is only important that the ratio of the interlocation distances between any three locations in said first array be equal to the ratio of the interlocation distances between the corresponding three locations in said second array. Fig. 4 illustrates the second array 38. It is seen that the overall configuration and number of locations of the second array corresponds to that of the first array. The differenceIs in the interlocation spacing b, which is greater In the second array than in the first It should be noted that Fig. 5Is drawn to a much larger scale than Fig. 4. In reality, a b . The image modification, or magnification of this device is determined by the ratio interlocation spacing b to interlocation spacing a. The interconnection between the corresponding locations of the first and second arrays 36 and 38 is illustrated generally in Fig. 2 and more particularly in Fig. 6. It is seen that a signal transmi tting means 50 extends from a location on the first array 36 to a corresponding location on the second array 38. In the embodiment shown, the signal transmitting means 50 consist of optical fibers which transmit radiation, such as visible light impinging upon a location in the first array, to the corresponding location on the second array, to produce an output image. However, as all locations 36, 38 rotate at the same speed.their peripheral velocities obviously vary with their distance from the axis of rotation 22, the peripheral velocities increasing with increasing distance from this axis. As a consequence, illumination, or luminance, across the output image of the device as so far described would not be uniform, decreasing as it would from the center towards the periphery.This circumstance can, however, be compensated for in several ways A variable density neutral filter 28 Fig. 1 can be interposed between the light source 24 and the carriage 26.This filter is densest in its center and becomes gradually less dense towards its periphery, its density varying inversely with the distance from the center. In devices with a fixed carrier, such as would be the case with slide projectors, the carrier 26 itself could be designed as neutral filter with the above mentioned properties. Another way to compensate for the iluminance fall off would be to provide more than the four branches of location arrays shown in Figs. 4 and 5, but instead of providing each of the additional branches with their full complement of locations and optical fibers, each branch would have less locations than the preceding branch, locations being eliminated starting from the inner zone outward so that, counting the locations from the inner towards the outer zones, it will be seen that, with increasing distance from the center, the number of locations, i.e., of optical fibers per concentric belts swept, increases as well. A third solution would be the provision, between the light source 24 and the carriage 26, of a nonspherical condenser system rotating in synchronism with the locations 36 and having such an optical design as not only to concentrate most of the light from the light source 24 onto the four branches of the array 36, but to produce within each branch. an intensity drop from the far end towards the centerside end thereof. It will be appreciated that by rotation of the entire base element 12, both arrays 36 and 38 move together in scanning motion and thus provide a scanned image of the object appearing in front of array 36. It Is a particular feature of the invention that, the signal transmission means being constituted by optical fibers, the scanned image at array 38 is an image which can be directly viewed. Thus array 38, when rotating. corresponds to a viewing screen. It is clear from Fig. 1 that the image defining device or transparency 27 has to be located very close to the first surface 32 and the first array 36 in order to produce thereon a reasonably sharp image. Too close a proximity, on the other hand, is liable to cause the transparency 27 to contact the rotating first surface 27, possibly resulting in damage to the transparency as well as to the first array 36. This difficulty is overcome in the embodiment shown inFig. 7, where, as can be clearly seen, the transparency 27 is far removed from the rotating first surface 32, on which the transparency 27 is imaged by a lens 33. This lens, having a focal length of f, is located at a distance 2f from both the transparency 27 and the first surface 32. The object on the transparency 27 is thus imaged on the first surface 32 at zero magnification. It is also seen that the first surface 32 in which, as will be remembered, lies the first array 36 is slightly curved. This curved surface can be designed to follow the uncorrected field curvature of any lens or lens system.which permits the use of relatively cheap lenses without impairing the quality of the output image. A further advantage of this correction curvature is that it also improves the brightness of the peripheral image zones, which are otherwise severely affected by the so called cosine fourth law.Another beneficial effect of the interposed lens of this embodiment is the depth of focus inherent in any optical system, which can absorb minor deviations from the theoretical object image distance, such deviations as would be caused by a slight wobble of the rotating first surface 32. Also, the manufacturing and assembly tolerances of both mechanical and optical components can be far more generous, thus reducing production costs. Figs. 8 and 9 show another embodiment of the image transmission device according to the invention, in which image modification is zero, i.e., no magnification takes place.This device, called a cathode ray tube CRT faceplate is used for the distortion free transfer of the CRT display, produced on a spherical surface, to a plane surface, where it can be, e.g., photographed, again without distortion. Such faceplates, containing multitudes of carefully oriented optical fibers, are indeed available, but are very expensive, precisely because of the required careful spatial one to one correspondence of the fiber ends. The present embodiment, conceived as an attachment to ex1stRng oscilloscopes, comprises a housing 52 attachable to the oscilloscope body. Inside the housing. there is provided a drum like body 54 having a concave rear face 56 with a radius of curvature appropriate to the radius of curvature of the display surface 58 of the CRT 60 and a plane front face 62, past which there is led a photographic film to record events on the CRT surface 58. On both the concave rear face 56 and the plane front face 62 there are arranged arrays of light transmitting locations 64 and 66 respectively, each location constituting the end of an optical fiber 68. These fibers 68, arranged in this embodiment in a diametral plane.transmit any light signal emanating from the CRT to the front face 62. When. now, in a manner to be explained below, the drum 54 is rotated, the rear array 65 scans the CRT display which, transmitted to the front array 66, is now fully visible on the rotating front face 62. The drum 54 is provided with a V shaped peripheral groove 70 in which engage two guide rollers 72 and one drive roller 74 which, in its turn, is driven via a belt 76 by an electric motor 78 attached to the housing 52. All rollers have a profile that is adapted to fit the groove 70, which profile is not necessarily V shaped as shown, but could also be round.One of the rollers is spring biased against the other two rollers and at least the drive roller 74 has a tire that is made of e.g., rubber, to provide sufficient friction for frictiondriving the drum 54. Reference will now be made to Figs. 10 25 which represent various additional embodiments of the image transmission device according to the invention. In these embodiments the modulated light from the first image surface is converted into electrical signals using photodetectors. The signals produced by the latter are then fed via electrical conductors to the second image surface, where they are reconverted into light signals by, e.g., light emitting diodes. Figs. 10 13 represent an embodiment that is an electro optical analogue of the fiber optical embodiment of Figs. 1 6. There is seen in Fig. 10 a housing 80 comprising a partition wall 82 in an opening of which is mounted a ball bearing 84. Into the inner race of this bearing is tightly fitted the hub portion 86 of a relatively narrow base element or drum 88 which can thus rotate about its central axis 90 and can be made to do so by an electric motor 92 having a friction roller 94 biased against the periphery of the drum 88. The drum 88 is delimited by two plane, parallel surfaces, a first surface 96 closing off the hollow hub 86 see Fig. 11 , and a second, much larger, surface 98 closing off the opposite end of the drum 88. On the first surface 96 there is arranged a first array of locations 100 which, in this preferred embodiment, is cruciform and is constituted by a central location 102 surrounded by four line arrays 104, each comprising a plurality of locations 106. Each of these locations 106 as well as the central location 102 represents in fact an output device consisting of a light emitting diode LED .The second array 116 is not only equally cruciform, being constituted by the central location 118 surrounded by four line arrays 120, but there is a one to one correspondence between the photodetectors of the first array 100 and theLED s of the second array 116, the latter being a perfect homologue of the former. Thus when one of the photodetectors in the first array 100 is stimulated, its correspondent counterpart in the second array 116 will light up. Both cruciform arrays 110, 116 are also of the same orientation. The object to be magnified, e.g., a section of a microfiche 122, is mounted on a carrier glass plate 124 in close proximity to the first surface 96 Fig. 11 and the first array 100 arranged thereon. The carrier plate 124, in a manner per se known, can be moved about in a plane perpendicular to the axis 90, so that every section of the microfiche can be reached. When now light from the light source 126, modulated by the different densities of the transparency 122, hits the cruciform first array 100, the corss of the second array 116, fed by the processor 110, will light up, too, depending on the photocurrents generated by the correspondent photodetectors. Yet at this stage, all that can be seen are brighter or darker light spots along a cross shape. However, as soon as the electric motor 92 is switched on and sets the drum 88 rotating, the photodetectors of the first array 100 start scanning the transparency 122, the LED s light up accordingly and, provided the drum 88 rotates at a sufficiently high speed, an enlarged image is produced by the LED s of the second array 116 that, to the viewer, appears to be continuous.As in the embodiment of Fig. 1, magnification i determined by the ratio interlocation spacing b of the second array 116 Fig. 12 to interlocation spacing a of the first array 100 it should be noted that Fig. 11 is drawn to a much larger scale than Fig. 12. In reality a b . Analogously, resolution of the system is determined by the interlocation distance a of the first array and can be sub stantially increased by the simple device of radially offsetting the separate line arrays 104 relative to one another by a radial distance equaling the diameter of the location 106 divided by the number of line arrays to the array pattern in this case four. This is clearly seen in Fig. 11, where the 5 o clock line array is contiguous with the center location 102, the 12 o clock array is no longer touching the center location 102, and the 9 otclockg and 6 o clock arrays move progressively iol iller away.Obviously the line arrays 120 of the second array of locations 116 must be similarly offset. The power needed by the processor 110 is fed to the rotating drum 88 via stationary brushes 128 which make contact with slip rings 130 attached to the drum 88, and leads 132. The light source 126 need not necessarily be placed as shown in Fig. 10. A larger bulb, including a reflector and, possibly, a condensor lens, could be accommodated in the upper left corner of the housing 80, the light being Upiped to the carrier 124 and the transparency 122 by means of a bundle of optical fibers or by means of a mirror or prism. While LED s give adequate service in normally lit rooms.they are less than satisfactory under conditions of direct sunlight such as would obtain, e.g., in cockpits of airplanes, where the apparatus according to the invention might be used as a map projector. For service under such conditions, the LED s could be replaced by liquid crystal devices LCD s which do not emit light, but rather control the reflexion of incident light. Fig. 13 is a block diagram of the electronic processor 110, comprising an amplifier and current regulator for each photodetector and associated LED or LCD. Also controlled by the processor 110 is the luminance drop, felt by the viewer, with increasing distance from the axis of rotation, of the LED s, due to the increasing peripheral velocity of the latter. This phenomenon can be compensated for electronically by making amplification also a function of radial distance of the individualLED from he axis 90. While for the above detailed embodiment the cruciform pattern of arrays was found most suitable, other patterns may be used as well. Such alternative patterns would include patterns with either more or less line arrays than the cruciform arrangement discussed above, with a single line array being obviously the minimum for a full scan. Another possibility would be a spiral pattern with one or more arms. It is clear from Fig. 10 that the image defining device or transparency 122 has to be located very close to the first surface 96 and the first array 100 in order to produce thereon a reasonably sharp image. Too close a proximity, on the other hand, is liable to cause the transparency 122 to contact the rotating first surface 96, possibly resulting in damage to the transparency 122 as well as to the first array 100. This difficulty is overcome in the embodiment shown InFigs. 14 16 where, as can be clearly seen, there are no rotating components in the immediate vicinity of the transparency 122 which could damage it by coming in contact with It, as in this embodiment the first surface 96 and the first array 100 is inside the drum 88, off the central axis 90 and thus far removed from the transparency 122. The first surface 96 is perpendicular to the plane of the transparency 122 and the second surface 98, and the configuration of the first array 100 is seen in Fig. 15, a view in direction of arrow A in Fig. 14.The transparency 122 is imaged on the first surface 96 by a lens 134 via a deflecting prism 136. The lens 134, having a focal length of f, is located at a distance 2f from both the transparency 122 shown in Fig. 16 in the unfolded position of the light rays and the first surface 96. The transparency is thus imaged on the first surface 96 at zero magnification.When the drum 88 rotates driven by the electric motor 92 via a belt 138 , the image thrown onto the first surface 96 rotates about the optical axis 140 of the lens 134 and is thus scanned by the first array 100 which, relative to the axis 140, is stationary. The first array 100 consists of photodetectors, e.g., photodiodes or CCD s Change Coupled Devices which, when hit by light, produce a voltage that is proportional to the intensity of the light. Via leads 108, these voltages are led to the processor 110 in a predetermined sequence. From the processor 100. the suitably amplified signals are led via leads 112 to the output elements 114 of the second array 116 located on the second surface 98. These elements can be, e.g.,LED s or LCD s. A carriage 142, movable along two axes, permits different portions of the transparency e.g., a microfiche to be viewed. Although in this and the following embodiments magnification is fixed, depending as it does on the above mentioned ratio, embodiments are possible in which, by mechanically shifting the lens 134, or by providing an additional lens or lenses, the image on the first surface can be premagnified, giving two or more total magnifications. A zoom arrangement would also be feasible. The slip ring and brush arrangement shown in Fig. 10, which is obviously required also in this as well as in the following embodiments, has been omitted in the relevant drawings for sake of clarity. Another lens equipped embodiment is shown in Fig. 17. Here there is no prism and the lens 134 is located between the transparency 122 and the first surface 96, at the distance 2f from either. It is also seen that the first surface 96 in which, as will be remembered, lies the first array 100 is slightly curved. This curved surface can be designed to follow the uncorrected field curvature of any lens or lens system, which permits the use of relatively cheap lenses without impairing the quality of the output image. A further advantage of this correction curvature is that it also improves the brightness of the peripheral Image zones, which are otherwise severely affected by the so called cosine fourth law. Another beneficial effect of the interposed lens of this and similar embodiments is the depth of focus inherent in any optical system, which can absorb minor deviations from the theoretical object image distance, such deviations as would be caused by a slight wobble of the rotating first surface 96.Also, the manufacturing and assembly tolerances of both mechanical and optical components can be far more generous, thus reducing production costs. Another feature of this particular embodiment is the use of relatively large photodetectors 106, too large to be grouped together to form the first array 100 and still give adequate resolution. This problem is solved by using intermediate light guides in the shape of thin optical fibers 144, which are attached in close formations to the first surface 96, where their first ends constitute the first array 100.Behind the first surface 96 they fan out and are each connected to the corresponding detector 106 with their other ends. The embodiment illustrated in Figs. 18 and 19 is similar to that of Figs. 14 16 in that both have a deflection prism lens system imaging the transparency 122 on a first surface 96 located laterally and perpendicular to the plane of the transparency. There is, however, an important distinction while the embodiment of Figs. 14 16 works with transmitted light, the light source 126 being located below the transparency 122, the present embodiment operates with reflected light. To this end there is provided, inside the drum 88, a light source, comprising a bulb 146, a condenser lens 148 and a housing 150. Light from this source is thrown on a semi transparent mirror 152, which deflects part of it via the lens 134 onto the transparency 122, whence it is reflected back through the lens and onto the first surface 96, having been appropriately modulated by the differing brightness values of the different portions of the transparency. To prevent undesirable stray light from reaching the photodetectors on the first surface 96, a light trap 154 is provided, which intercepts and eliminates that portion of light from the light source that passes the semitransparent mirror 152. An embodiment of the invention suitable for colored trasparencies is shown schematically.in Figs. 20 22. Via a first beam splitter 156, a first filter R red , a second beam splitter 158, a second filter G green , and a third filter B blue , the lens 134 forms images on three photodetector units 160, 162 and 164, each of which has a complete first array 100. The signals produced by the separate arrays are fed to the processor 110 via the leads 108 Fig. 21 and after processing, to the second arrays 116R, 116B, 116G Fig. 22 via corresponding leads 112R, 112B and 112G. As can be seen inFig. 22, the three second arrays 116R, 116B and 116G include with one another angles .It is seen in Fig. 20 that the photodetector 160 red and the photodetector 162 green are tilted with respect to the horizontal by the same angle while the photodetector 164 blue is horizontal. The associated first and second arrays are thus always of the same respective orientation. The LED s in each of the second arrays 116 are obviously selected to produce light of the required color. For high resolution applications, available LED s 114 might sometimes be too large in diameter. The embodiment of Fig. 23 representing the underside of the second surface 98, shows a simple solution to this problem the final output Is effected by optical fibers 166, the juxtaposed ends of which constitute the second array 116, while their other ends are each connected to a corresponding LED. The various leads 112 and 108 not shown can be parts of a printed circuit, of which the underside of the second surface 98 is the carrier, Figs. 24 and 25 represent an electro optical analogue of the fiber optical CRT faceplate of Figs. 8 and 9. The present embodiment, equally conceived as an attachment to existing oscilloscopes, comprises a housing 168 attachable to the oscilloscope body. Inside the housing, there is provided a drum like body 170 having a concave rear face 172 with a radius of curvature appropriate to the radius of curvature of the display surface 174 of the CRT 176 and a plane front face 178, past which there is led a photographic film 179 to record events on the CRT surface 174. On the concave rear face 172 of the drum 170 there is arranged a first array 180 consisting of photodetectors, and on its plane front face 178 there is arranged a second array 182 consisting of LED s, each LED being connected to its correspondent detector via a processor 110. Both arrays are located in the same, diametral p ane.When now, in a manner to be explained below, the drum 170 is rotated, the rear array 180 scans the CRT display which, transmitted to the front array 182, is now fully visible on the rotating front face 178. The drum 170 is provided with a V shaped peripheral groove 184 in which engage two guide rollers 186 and one drive roller 188 which, in its turn, Is driven via a belt 190 by an electric motor 192 attached to the housing 168. All rollers have a profile that is adapted to fit the groove 184 which profile is not necessarily V shaped as shown, but could also be round. One of the rollers is spring biased against the other two rollers and at least the drive roller 188 has a tire that is made of, e.g., rubber, to provide sufficient friction for friction driving the drum 170. Optical devices suitable for application of the present invention include, apart from those already mentioned, also slide and movie projectors as well as the transmitted light microscope. It will be evident to those skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to the details of the foregoing illustrative embodiments, and that the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the essential attributes thereof, and it is therefore desired that the present embodiments be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive, reference being made to the appended claims, rather than to the foregoing description, and all changes which come with the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced therein.