# Combustion devices.

## Abstract
A combustion device comprises a combustion chamber 12 , means 16 for generating gaseous products of combustion in the combustion chamber, and a passage for the gases which includes an exhaust 30 which has at least one heat recovery heat exchanger 18 to 26 therein, the heat exchanger having a surface coated with a catalytic material for oxidising the gaseous products of combustion to recover heat therefrom.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A combustion device comprising a combustion chamber 12 , means 16 for generating gaseous products of combustion in the combustion chamber 12 , and passage means connected to the combustion chamber 12 and including an exhaust for the gaseous products of combustion, characterised in that at least one heat recovery heat exchanger 18 to 26 is disposed in the passage means and a catalytic material 32 is associated with the heat exchanger for oxidising the gaseous products of combustion to recover heat therefrom. 2. A combustion device according to claim 1, wherein the or a said heat recovery heat exchanger includes tubes 34 having a layer of catalyst 32 thereon. 3. A combustion device according to claim 1 or claim 2, which comprises a vapour generator having a said heat recovery heat exchanger in the form of a superheater 18, 20, 22 having a catalytic materiai associated therewith. 4. A combustion device according to claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3, which comprises a vapour generator having a said heat recovery heat exchanger in the form of an economiser 24 having a catalytic material associated therewith. 5. A combustion device according to any one of the preceding claims, which comprises a vapour generator having a said heat recovery heat exchanger in the form of an air heater 265. 6. A combustion device according to claim 1, which comprises a boiler having a vertically elongate gas pass 14 and one or more gas passages t30 leading off from the vertically elongate gas pass 14 and comprising the passage means, the one or more gas passages 30 including a superheater 18, 20, 22 , an economiser 24 and an air heater 26 all having tubes 34 and comprising the at least one heat recovery heat exchanger, the tubes 34 beinsl coated with cntalvtic material 3 .

## Description
COMBUSTION DEVICES This invention relates to combustion devices, for instance boilers. At the present time, industrial combustion devices such as boilers and power plants for similar type furnaces are operated such that they can conserve fuel as much as possible. Known ways of conserving fuel in such devices comprise controlling the combustion process with instrumentation that closely controls the fuel and air ratios. However, even with sophisticated control systems, some unburned fuel gases still are wasted up the stack. A typical furnace is operated with excess air to prevent excessive fuel loss and or smoking. Using excess air involves the disadvantages that it wastes heat by causing large amounts of nitrogen and oxygen to be heated and wastes energy in driving fans. According to the present invention there is provided a combustion device comprising a combustion chamber, means for generating gaseous products of combustion in the combustion chamber, and passage means connected to the combustion chamber and including an exhaust for the gaseous products of combustion, characterised in that at least one heat recovery heat exchanger is disposed in the passage means and a catalytic material is associated with the heat exchanger for oxidising the gaseous products of combustion to recover heat therefrom. In a preferred embodiment of the invention described hereinbelow, a heat recovery heat exchanger is provided in one or more passes for the gases of the combustion device, the heat exchanger including a heat exchange surface coated with the catalytic material for oxidising the gaseous products of combustion to recover heat therefrom. By catalysing a large heat exchange surface downstream from a burner or the like, unburned fuel gases will be utilised and the heat transferred to a useful medium, thereby conserving fuel and combating atmospheric pollution. It has been determined that certain materials catalyse gaseous products of combustion in the presence of oxygen and at temperatures 0 0 exceeding 204 C 400 F . Examples of some of these catalytic materials are platinum, palladium, and nickel. In embodiments of this invention, one or more of the catalytic materials can be located directly adjacent heat exchange surfaces of the heat recovery heat exchanger. The catalytic materials may, for example, be applied by vapour coating or sputtering, electroplating or other suitable methods to a support for an associated heat exchange surface of a heat recovery unit. The invention is particularly applicable for example as coatings for superheater tubes or supports therefor exposed to unburned fuel gases in a gas pass of a boiler.Because such units are generally always operated under excess air conditions, the fuel should be readily oxidised and the resultant energy transferred to the fluid in the heat recovery heat exchanger, resulting in favourable economy of fuel. Electroplating or applying the catalytic material by a vapour coating or sputtering can produce a very thin layer, thereby keeping capital investment low and making the arrangement economically attractive. Since fuels would be catalytically combusted at temperatures lower than flame ignition temperatures, no fire or explosion hazards should exist in such units. The preferred combustion device embodying the invention and described hereinbelow is simple in design, rugged in construction and economical to manufacture. The invention will now be further described, by way of illustrative and non limiting example, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which Figure 1 is a schematic sectional view of a boiler embodying the invention and Figure 2 is an enlarged detailed sectional view of a section of one or more gas passages of the boiler shown in Figure 1, indicating economiser or air heater tubes covered with a thin layer of catalyst. The drawing shows a combustion device 10 which, in the embodiment illustrated, comprises a boiler having a combustion chamber portion 12 leading to a vertically elongate passage 14 for the gaseous products of combustion. Gaseous products of combustion are generated ifl the combustion chamber 12, for example by burners 16 which are generally operated with some degree of excess air. One or more heat recovery heat exchangers such as superheaters 18, 20 and 22, an economiser 24 or an air heater 26 are located in one or more passage means 30 leading off from the upper end of the combustion chamber and gas passage 14 and connecting the combustion chamber to a flue exhaust or exhausts or stack. The heat recovery heat exchangers have a catalytic material associated therewith. For example, as shown in Figure 2, a thin layer of catalyst material 32 is coated over one or more of a plurality of tubes 34 of the associated heat recovery heat exchanger or a supporter element alongside of it. In a preferred form, the catalytic material 32 is applied over the tubes 34 by coating the tubes with a thin layer of the catalyst material, such as platinum, palladium and nickel.