# Fluid pressure operable actuator.

## Abstract
A pulling type of fluid pressure operable spring force brake actuator has a housing 1 divided into a pressure chamber 9 and a non pressure chamber 10 by a dia phragm which acts under fluid pressure against a pressure plate 11 to compress springs 12 and thereby relieve an actuator rod 14 of brake force tension, stops 25 being provided in the housing against which the edge 24 of the pressure plate can rest when free and not under fluid pressure and a seal 17 or 31 being provided across the aperture 13 through which the actuator rod passes which allows both lateral and longitudinal movement of the rod.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A fluid pressure operable diaphnagm spring actuator including a housing 1 a pressure responsive diaphragm 4 dividing the housing into a pressure chamber and a nonpressure chamber, an actuator output rod 14 onnected to a pressure plate 11 co operating with the diaphragm and passing through an aperture 13 in the housin, a force exerting compression spring 12 retained in t non pressure chamber 10 between the pressure plate and the housing, characterised by sealing means 17 31 across the aperture via which the actuator output rod passes and tie pressure plate being dished and having a peripherally disposed front 24 engageable with stop members 25 projecting inwardly of the housing to inhibit full expansion of the spring. 2. A fluid pressure operable actuator as claimed in claim 1 characterised by the sealing means comprisin a generally conical tubular member 17 the wider end of which is retained in the aperture and the narrower en of which is disposed inwardly thereof in relation to the housing to sealingly engage the actuator rod but to permit lateral movement of the rod in the aperture. 3. A fluid pressure operable actuator as claimed in claim 2 characterised by the narrower inner end being sealingly slideable on the rod. 4. A fluid pressure operable actuator as claimed in claim 1, characterised by the sealing means comprising a gaiter or bellows 31 the ends of which are provided with beads and means 34 36 for retaining said beads in relation to the housing and the actuator rod. 5. A fluid pressure operable actuator as claimed in claim 1, 2 , 3 or 4 characterised by the stop members 25 being so positioned that the pressure plate rests against them and not against the diaphragm when fluid pressure is released from the pressure chamber. 6. A fluid pressure operable actuator as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 characterised by the peripheral part of the pressure plate being provided with a protective moulding 24a . 7. A fluid pressure operable actuator as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6., characterised by the housing mounting bolts with shaped heads which are captive in retaining recesses in the inside of the non pressure chamber 16 . 8. A fluid pressure operable actuator as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 characterised by a plurality of springs 12 .

## Description
Fluid Pressure Operable ActuatorsThis invention relates to fluid pressure operable spring actuators and relates especially but not exclusively to brake actuators.A fluid pressure operable diaphragm spring actuator including a housing, a pressure responsive diaphragm dividing the housing into a pressure chamber and a non pressure chamber, an actuator output rod connected to a pressure plate co operating with the diaphragm and passing through an aperture in the housing a force exerting compression spring retained in the non pressure chamber between the pressure plate and the housing characterised by sealing means across the aperture via which the actuator output rod passes and the pressure plate being dished and having a peripherally part engageable with stop members projecting inwardly of the housing to inhibit full expansion of the spring.In order that the invention may be more clearly understood and readily carried into effect, the same will be further described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawing. of which Fig. 1 shows a spring brake actuator and Fig. 2 shows a possible modification of Fig. 1.Referring to the part sectional view of Fig. 1, the actuator comprises a housing 1 provided with three mounting studs or bolts with shaped heads which are captive in the housing to prevent rotation, two of which bolts are shown by reference 2, for mounting the actuator to a mounting bracket or chassis member 3 shown dotted of a vehicle for the purposes of actuating the vehicle brakes. The housing is provided with a pressure responsive member in the form of a diaphragm 4 with a peripherial bead 5 clamped between the housing 1 and a pressure cover 7 by a clamping ring 6an bo lt 6a The cover 7 is provided with a fluid pressure input port 8 and the diaphragm therefore divide the housing into a pressure chamber 9 and a non pressure chamber 10. The diaphragm 4 is shown in the drawing in the position which it takes up when full fluid pressure is applied at the port 8.In this position, the diaphragm acts against a dished pressure plate 11 which rests against inward ends of a plurality of internal ribs 27. Between plate li and the facing end of the assembly there is located a group of three concentrically arranged springs 12 under compression. This facing end Qf the housing is provided with an aperture 13 via which an output member in the form of a rod 14 projects outwardly of the actuator 1. The rod 14 passes through plate 11 and the inner end of 14 is provided with a head 15 which locates in a recess 16 of the member 11. It is seen therefore that the release of air from the chamber 9 is able to place the output rod 14 in tension. Furthermore, the output rod 14 is pivotally moveable through a range of angles as indicated by the angle e by virtue of the arrangement of the head 15 and the recess 16.In order to accomodate the above mentioned range of angular movement for the rod 14 but at the same time provide for the exclusion of contaminants into the actuator itself, a generally conical dirt exclusion member 17 is provided which has a smaller inner end 18 making sealingly slideable engagement with the rod 14 and a larger outer end 19 sealingly located within the aperture 13 the diameter of which is chosen to permit the desired amount of angular movement. The material of the dirt exclusion member 17 is chosen to be sufficicntly flexible to permit the desired amount of lateral movement of the end 18 in relation to the end 19 resulting from movement of the line of action of the actuator rod 14 through the angle G on either side of the central axis 20 of the assembly. The outer end of the actuator rod 14 maybe connected to a brake mechanisms by a suitable screw thimble 21 and a rotatable yoke 22 and thimble 21 preferably being provided with a locking nut 23.The member 11 is provided with a peripheral rim or flange 24 with a protective moulded plastic bead 24a. In the fully retracted position thereof when there is no pressure applied to the input port 8 this flange is engageable with three inwardly projecting members 25. Not only does this prevent the possibility of damage to the diaphragm by engagement with the inside of cover 7 but it also prevents the possibility of dangerous release of the potential energy of the spring by inadvertant removeable of the pressure plate 7. Preferably, the inward projections 25 are in the form of pressed in.studs located in bosses such as 26 cast into the housing so that they cannot be removed from externally of the actuator.Whilst the embodiment of the invention shown in Fig. 1 employs a generally conical internal seal 17 across the aperture 13, within which the rod 14 is sealingly slideable, an alternative and compact form of seal may be provided by a flexible gaiter or bellows such as shown in Fig. 2. The gaiter or bellows 31 has an inner end with a bead 32 retained by an annular rim 33 of a retaining plate 34 held in place by the mounting studs. The outer end has a bead 35 which is retained by a pair of members 36 the peripheries of which are shaped to form a recess, the members 36 being clamped in position by locking nuts 37 for locking the adjustment thimble 38 on the rod. Access to the locating nut for adjustment is readily provided by removing bead 35 from member 36.By employing plurality of springs 12 in the embodiment described the actuator is capable of developing a high output force whilst employing relatively non critical constructions of low rate springs. The facility to provide a multiplicity of actuator outputs by employing different combinations of springs.When the actuator is used as a parking brake actuator for a vehicle braking system the actuator force may be released by adjustment of the thimble 21 which is rotatable in yoke 22 or in the case of Fig. 2 the thimble 36 rotatable in yoke 37.