# Enzymatic reaction process.

## Abstract
A biochemical enzymatic reaction involving an oxidizing enzyme which converts a substrate to an oxidized product with NAD or NADP as coenzyme is provided with a recycling system for returning the NADH or NADPH pro duced to the oxidized state by the presence of a NADH or NADPH oxidase. The use of the oxidase to recycle the coenzyme avoids the presence of undesirable additional substrates and by products and in general the oxidation potential of the reverse reaction enhances the basic enzyma tic oxidation.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing an oxidised product fran a substrate employing an oxidising enzyme with a cofactor Which is NAD orNADP in which the resulting NADH or NADPH is returned to the oxidised state by the enzymatic reaction of a soluble flavoprotein enzyme which is NADH oxidase or NADPH oxidase se in the presence of a source of oxygen. 2. A process according to claim 1 in which the NADH oxidase is derived fran lactic acid bacteria. 3. A process according to claim 2 in which the bacteria belong to the genera Leuconostoc or Streptococcus. 4. A process according to any one of the preceding claims in Which the oxidation reaction is conversion of ethanol to acetaldehyde by alcohol dehydrogenase. 5. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the enzyme reaction is the conversion of glutamate to alpha ketoglutarate by glutanate dehydrogenase. 6. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5 conducted at a pH of 6 to 9 and at a temperature of 15 to 45 C 7. A process according to any one of the preceding claims in which the oxidising enzyme and the NADH or NADPH2 oxidases are stabilised by immobilisation. 8. A process according to any one of the preceding claims in which the NAD or NADP is contained in a bioreactor by a semipermeable membrane. 9. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the or or NADP is maintained in the reactor by enlarging the molecular size of the cofactor. 10. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 7 in which the cofactor molecule is anchored to an inert base or to an enzymatic carponent by means of a molecular extension. 11. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 10 in which the reaction system is mounted on a sensor or electrode sensitive to a change produced by the reaction system to provide a sensing device.

## Description
ENZYMATIC REACTION PROCESS This invention relates to enzymatic reactions. A large number of enzymes require an oxidised or reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide NAD or NADH or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate NADP or NADPH as a cofactor or ooenzyme. Thus in the biochemical processes in Which these enzymes are used to convert substrates to oxidized products, stoichiometric amounts of NAD or NWP must he employed. The necessity for supplying these amounts of expensive oofactors is a significant factor in the economic and industrial use of these enzymes for oxidation reactions. To some extent, the problem can be overcame by introducing a second enzyme and a cosubstrate to recycle the cofactor. For example, alcohol dehydrogenase and malate dehydrigenase can be used O. Campbell and T.M.S. Chang, Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications 69 1976 562 as shown in the flow diagram in Fig. 1. In such a system only catalytic amounts of NAD are required providing they are retained in the bioreaction system. However, the desired product from the reaction e.g. acetaldehyde has to be separated fran the reduction product of the reverse reaction e.g.malate in the bave reaction, which requires costly down stream processing morever cosubstrate in oxidized form oxaloacetate in the above example must be supplied in excess to drive the reaction to completion Which increases the cost apart from being disadvantageous in regard to separation of products. The problem of coproduct formation can be overcome by employing as the reverse reaction one which will result in NADH formation but a non interfering by product. For example one can use NADH peroxidase with peroxide as a cosubstrate EMI1.1 In this system there is no need to separate the desired reaction products fran the product stream since the product is water.On the other hand it still is necessary to provide a cosubstrate which in this instance is peroxide. moreover, peroxides are toxic to many enzyme reactions and inactivate free and immobilized enzymes which may reduce dramatically the concentration of the substrates which can be used and the lifetime of the enzyme reaction, again increasing the potential cost of the system. It has now been found that NADH oxidase which catalyses the reaction EMI2.1 can be used to recycle NADH produced in such a system. SimilarlyNADH can be recycled by NADPH oxidase. Acoording to the invention therefore there is provided an enzymatic process for the production of an oxidised product by reaction of an oxidising enzyme on a oorresponding substrate in the presence of NAD or SDP wherein the reduced cofactor is returned to the oxidised state by a soluble flavprotein enzyme which is S H oxidase or NADPH oxidase in the presence of a source of oxygen. The systen is diagranatically illustrated in Fig. 2 for the NµD system. Significant cost improvements are achieved since no cosubstrate is required other than oxygen or an oxygen source Which is usually normally present in the system and co substrates and cc products are not required so avoiding the necessity of any separation of product fran by product or cc product. Morever the kinetics of the system are such that the oxidation potential of the return or recycle reaction is usually greater than that of the enzymatic reaction using the oxidising enzyme so as to urge that system towards completion. The system of the invention can be applied to a wide variety of react ions involving oxidizing enzymes. The relevant main or basic enzymes of the system are the oxidc reductases of Class 1 of the Reocimendation as to Enzyme Nomenclature of the Nomenclature Canmittee of the International Union of Biochemistry the IUB system sanetimes known as dehydrogenases which enzymes require NAD or NADP as a cofactor in the transition reaction. For example the system can be applied to the production of acetaldehyde fran alcohol or alpha ketoglutarate and artr a fran glutamate employing alcohol dehydrogenase and glutamate dehydrogenase respectively. Other oxidizing enzymes or dehydrogenases cculd be glycerol phosphate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, glyceraldekryde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase glutamate dehydrcgenase NAPD , glycerol dehydrogenase, glucose dehydrcgenase, glucose dehydrogenase NAPD , beta hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase, oestradiol 17 beta dehydrogenase, aryl alcohol NADP dehydrogenase, aldehyde dehydrogenase, lactaldehyde dehydrogenase, arylaldehyde dehydrogenase, cotisone beta reductase, chloestenone 5 beta reductase, l aminoacid dehydrogenase but these are merely exemplary. The main enzyme and the recyle enzyme e.g. NADH oxidase should naturally be reasonably ccmpatable to appropriate conditions ftr effective reaction, e.g. temperature and pH and there should not be any enzymatic interference between the systems but such can be readily determined from the existing knowledge on enzymes or by simple testing. The relative proportions of the NADH oxidase or the NADPH oxidase to the basic oxidising enzyme and the NµD or NAD present should be sudi that the basic oxidising action is pushed to completion as far as possible. Under rtcst enzymatic process conditions the difference in redox potential of NADH NAD orNADPH NADP couples and the H20 02 couple is so large that the basic oxiding enzymatic reaction will be driven to completion by the action of the NADH oxidase or NADPH oxidase. Naturally, as indicated above, the conditions in the biochemical enzymatic system must be sudh to favour both enzymatic reactions as far as practicable. It is therefore desirable, that as far as possible the NADH oxidase or NADPH oxidase operates in optimum conditions of pH temperature and concentration of components as does the oxidizing enzyme reaction with which it is cooperating.The precise choice of operating conditions however will offer no problem to one skilled in the art given the extensive knowledge on the optimum condition for each oxidising enzyme. As preferred conditions the system can be operated at a pH of from 6 to 9 and temperature 15 to 450C particularly 6.5 to 8.0 pH, 20 to 300C but the available variation is only limited by the practicalities of enzymatic reactions and the optimisation of desired yields and efficiencies. The reaction can be carried out in a wide variety of conventional bioreactors. Because of the expense of replacement for the NAD or NADP the construction of the bioreaction system will be such as to minimize any loss of cofactor fran the system, for example by use of membrane filter systems or hollow fibre systems. The cofactor can also be stabilized in this system by linking to either of the enzymes or a base material so as to provide effectively either free or stabilized products. Thus the cofactor or ooenzyme can be stabilized in this system by chemical linking by additional dhains so as to enlarge the molecular size of the cofactor so that it will not pass easily through a semi parmeable membrane or by linking into the enzyme or onto an independent base on which the enzyme is immobilized or otherwise linked using lengthy side chains where appropriate. Typical reaction systems in which the invention in the process oanbe.carried out can be columns or stirred tanks or other types of bioreactors. The enzymatic system according to the invention can also be employed in other systems utilizing enzymatic reactions.For example a sensing device for presence of materials or activity of enzymes can be devised by applying a combination of oxidising enzymes, cofactor and NAPH or NAPH to a sensor or electrode sensitive to a change produced by the activity of the system. Thus, where an appropriate substrate is present for the oxidising enzyme, the consequent production of NX9H, for example, and recycle to NAD with the utilization of oxygen could be measured by, for example an oxygen electrode, so providing means of measuring the concentration of the substrate in the system. The source of oxygen for the recycle of the NADH or NADPH i.e. for reaction involving the NAPH oxidase or NADPH oxidase can be oxygen added to the system fran air or oxygenated gas or can be derived, at least in part, fran an oxygen carrier providing this carrier does not other wise interfere with the enzymatic system. The NADH oxidase or NADPH oxidase can be secured in a known manner. NADH oxidase has been derived fran lactic acid bacteria S.Y.R.Pugh and C.J.Knswles, Journal of General Microbiology 1982 1009 D.D. Hoskins, H.R. Whiteley and D. Madder, Journal Biological Chemistry 237 1962 2647.Thus the enzyme can be derived fran lactic acid bacteria of the Family Streptococoaeae , genusStreptococcus, genus Leuconostoc, and genus Pedicoccus, and of theFamily Lactdbacillaceae, genus Iactdcillus in the sense of Bergey sManual of Determinative Bacteriology 8th edition. plhrry strains of bacteria produce or contain a membrane bound complex of NADH oxidase or NADPH oxidase as part of the respiratory system of the cell.These species of lactic acid bacteria form a soluble flavoproteinNADH oxidase enzyme. Leuconostoc mesenteroides, National Collection of Industrial and Marine Bacteria NC1MB strain 8699 contains particularly high levels of the enzyme and can be used routinely.Also Streptococcus faecalis NC1MB 8661 can be used one skilled in the art is well aware of the appropriate strains which world give enzymes of the greatest activity. For the production of the enzyme bacteria may be grown in irony common media and preferably can be grown aerobically but also anaerobically. Bacteria can then be harvested in exponential or stationary phase and resuspended in a buffer. If desired the enzyme can be recovered from the bacteria which are broken down by common procedures sudi as sonication, osmotic lysis with lysozyme, grinding with sand or in a pressure cell. The crude cell free extract can be used or a supernatant fraction fran the high speed centrifugation at 150,000g for 90 minutes, or a pure NADH oxidase could be prepared by standard purification procedures. Activity of a NADH oxidase fran Leuconostoc mesenteroides strainNClMB 8699 procured in the above manner would be active between pH 6 and 9 and fran 150 to 450C, preferably 6.5 to 8.0 pH and 20 to 300C. Specific activities in cell free extracts, supernatant fraction and the purified protein are 1.0 to 4.0, 2.0 to 7.0 and 50 to 100 mol NADH oxidised per minute mg protein, respectively. The invention will nw be illustrated in the following Examples EXAMPLE 1Recycling in an Alcohol Dehydrogenase system. In this system alcohol i.e. ethanol is oxidised to acetaldehydeWhile the NADH oxidase converts NADH to NAD with oxygen fran the system. NADH oxidase was prepared frown Leuconostoc mesenteroides strain NC1MB 8699. The bacteria were grown aerobically at 300C in a medium containing 2 glucose, 1.5 yeast extract, 1.5 nutrient broth, 0.2 K2HP04, 0.2 trianironitin citrate, 0.02 MgSO4.7H2O and 0.02 MnSO4.4H2O The bacteria were broken by a sonication procedure and a cell free extract prepared.To a mixture of from 20 C to 30 C of NAD mol per ml , ethanol 1 to 100 mol per ml , buffer 100 mol ml, having a pH of from 7.5 to 8.5 and alcohol dehydrogenase 3.5 units per ml, where one unit converts 1 mol substrate i.e. ethanol to product in 1 minute are added 100 l of the above cell free extract. After cne hour 708 or more of the alcohol was converted to acetaldehyde and after 3 hours essentially all the alcohol is converted to acetaldehyde. The resulting acetaldehyde was free of any major amounts of undesirable by product. EXAMPLE 2 The process of Example 1 was repeated using a supernatant fraction NADH oxidase extract. Substantially similar results were obtained. EXAMPLE 3 The procedure in Example 1 was repeated with a semi purifiedNADH oxidase and substantially similar results were obtained. EXAMPLE 4 The procedure in Example 1 was repeated using an NADH oxidase derived fran Streptococcus faecalis NClMB 8661 using a cell free extract substantially similar results were obtained. EXAMPLE 5Procedure for the production of alpha ketoglutarate and emmonia from glutomate. To a mixture at 20 C to 30 C of NAD 0.3 mol per ml , glutamate 1 to 50 umol per ml , buffer looprol ,pH 7.5 to 8.5 and glutamate dehydrogenase 7.2 units per ml were added 100 l cellfree extract of NADH oxidase derived fran L2uconostoc mesenteroides as described in Example 1. After 30 minutes the yield of alphaketoglutarate was 50 of the glutamate. This was repeated with supernatant fraction and purified NADH oxidase with substantially similar results.