# Processing modifier for polyolefins.

## Abstract
The use of polyvinyloctadecyl ethers as a processing modifier in the extrusion of polyolefin resins leads to a smoother surface of the extruded resin. Other beneficial effects include improved values of such important resin characteristics as tensile strength at break, percentage el ongation at break, tearing resistance, and impact resis tance.

## Claims
1. A process for extruding polyolefin resins, comprising the steps of a heating above its melting point a mixture comprising one hundred parts by weight of a polyolefin resin, and between 0.03 and 0.5 parts by weight of a polyvinyloctadecyl ether and b extruding the melt formed in step a thereby forming an extrudate. 2. The process of Claim 1, wherein the mixture comprises one hundred parts of the polyolefin resin, and between 0.1 and 0.3 parts by weight of the polyvinyloctadecyl ether. 3. The process of Claim 1, wherein the number average molecular weight of the polyvinyloctadecyl ether is between 1,000 and 10,000. 4. The process of Claim 2, wherein the number average molecular weight of the polyvinyloctadecyl ether is between 1,000 and 10,000.

## Description
PROCESSING MODIFIER FOR POLYOSFINS This invention relates to a processing modifier for polyolefin resins. More particularly this invention relates to the use of a polyvinyloctadecyl ether as an additive in the extrusion of polyolefin resins. In the absence of a processing modifier, the surface of most extruded polyolefin resins is undesirably rough and non uniform. Moreover, such extruded resins may exhibit a reduction in physical properties such as tensile strength at break, percentage elongation at break, tearing resistance, and impact resistance.Addition of process modifiers to extruded resin compositions is therefore beneficial in regard to physical strength properties and surface appearance. However, the excessive use of such additives may result in the reduction of other properties such as gloss, heat sealability, blocking, transparency and moisture resistance. Therefore, it is advisable to use only a small amount of effective additives. In general, the present invention provides a process for extruding polyolefin resins, comprising the steps of a heating above its melting point a mixture of about one hundred parts by weight of a polyolefin resin, and between about 0.03 and 0.5 parts by weight of a polyvinyloctadecyl ether and b extruding the melt formed in step a , thereby forming an extrudate. It is an object of this invention to provide a processing modifier for polyolefin resins. It is a further object of this invention to provide an improved process for extruding polyolefin resins. It is a further object of this invention to provide a process for extruding polyolefin resins whereby the extrudates are characterized by a smooth and uniform surface. It is a still further object of the invention to provide a process for the extrusion of polyolefin resins whereby the extrudates exhibit an improved tensile strength at break, percentage elongation at break, tearing resistance, and impact resistance. The following terms used herein are defined as follows Polyolefin resins resins which are difficult to process without an undesirably rough and non uniform surface under normal processing conditions unless a process modifier is used, including, but not limited to, such resins as polypropylene, medium and high density polyethylene, and linear low density polyethylene produced by polymerizing ethylene with an alpha olefin co monomer. Yield Strength expressed in megapascals MPa , as defined in ASTM Standard No. D 882, is the ratio of the yield load to the original minimum cross sectional area of the specimen. Tensile Strength at Break expressed in megapascals MPa , as defined in ASTM Standard No. D 882, is the ratio of the load at break to the original cross sectional area of the specimen. Percentage Elongation at Break expressed in percent, as defined in ASTM Standard No. D 882, is the ratio of the elongation at the moment of rupture of the specimen to the initial gage length of the specimen times one hundred. Tearing Resistance expressed in grams per millimeter, as defined in ASTM Standard No. D 1922, is calculated by the following formula EMI3.1 tb Corrected SEP Scale SEP Readi SEP Reading tb SEP on SEP Elmendorf SEP SEP machine SEP capacity SEP SEP grams SEP tb SEP Tear Resistance SEP Meter tb SEP Number SEP of SEP Sheets SEP Torn tb The Elmendorf Tear Resistance Meter is described inASTM Standard No. D 1922. rmpact Resistance expressed in megapascals MPa , defined as work done per volume acted on, is calculated by the following formula EMI3.2 tb SEP Scale SEP Scale SEP reading SEP on SEP Elmendorf tb 0.00243 SEP Tear Resistance SEP Meter SEP Pendulum SEP Factor tb SEP Thickness SEP of SEP Specimen SEP mm tb In the preferred method of practicing this invention, one hundred parts by weight of a polyolefin resin is blended with between about 0.1 and 0.3 parts by weight of a polyvinyloctadecyl ether. The mixture of polyolefin and polyether is heated to a temperature between 1400C to 3500C in an extruder, thereby forming a melt adapted for extrusion. The melt is then extended into a fused extrudate of any desired form or shape. More preferably, the mixture is heated to a temperature between 200at and 3000C in the extruder.The polyvinyloctadecyl ether used in the present invention as a process modifier is characterized as having a number average molecular weight of between about 1,000 and 10,000, and more preferably between 3,000 and 5,000. A polyvinyloctadecyl ether suitable for practicing this invention is manufactured and sold by the AmericanHoechst Corporation, Mountainside, New Jersey, under the tradename Wax V. The present invention is further illustrated by the following examples. EXAMPLES A sample of high density polyethylene resin having a density of about 0.95, melt index of 0.5 usingASTM Method D1238, Condition P, and a weight average molecular weight of 240,000 to 250,000 was multiply extruded into pellets on a 1.90 cm 0.75 in. 24 1 screw ratio thermoplastic extruder with a temperature profile for Zones 1 through 4 of 170, 185, 190, and 1900C, respectively, at fifty revolutions per minute RPM . The pellets obtained thereby were then blown into film on a 2.54 cm 1.0 in. laboratory extruder with a 2.54 cm 1.0 in. annular die and a die gap of 0.635 mm 0.025 in. , at a screw speed of sixty RPM, and a temperature profile for Zones 1 and 2, and Gate and Die Zones 1 and 2 of 175, 193, 196, 198, and 1980C, respectively.Conventional film and rheological tests were made to characterize the extruded film. In Example 1, no processing modifier was added to the polyethylene. In Example 2, O.2 weight percent zinc stearate, a known processing modifier, was added. In Examples 3 and 4, 0.2 weight percent of a polyvinyloctadecyl ether characterized as having a number average molecular weight of about 4,000 was added. The test results obtained are listed in TableI, below. TABLE I Tensile Yield Strength Tear ImpactExample Strength at Break Elongation Resist Resist No. MPa MPa at Break g mm MPa 1 22.78 36.18 570 46 5.33 2 17.69 37.31 656 67 11.18 3 20.38 47.13 683 202 14.80 4 21.17 47.01 688 183 14.20 Comparative Example The data displayed iz Table I above clearly show the results of adding a polyvinyloctadecyl ether to high density polyethylene as a processing modifier during extrusion. With the exception of yield strength, the properties listed therein were significantly improved by the use of the polyether modifier according to the present invention. By way of comparison, the use of zinc stearate in Example 2 led to values of these properties which were intermediate between the resin extruded with no processing modifier added, in Example 1, and the resins extruded with the addition of 0.2 percent polyvinyloctadecyl ether, in Examples 3 and 4. In addition, the surfaces of the films blown in Examples 3 and 4 were considerably smoother than the surface of the film blown in Example 1, and substantially smoother than the surface of the film blown in Example 2. Additional samples 5 9 of pelletized polypropylene and linear low density polyethylene were blown into film on a 2.54 cm 1.0 in. laboratory extruder with a 7.62 cm 3.0 in. annular die and a die gap of 0.635 mm 0.025 in. , at a screw speed of about fifty five RPM.The extruder temperature profile for Zones 1 and 2, andGate, and Die Zones l and 2 was 190, 215, 220, 220 and 215 C, respectively, for the polypropylene, and 160, 175, 193, 193 and 1870C, respectively, for the linear low density polyethylene. Examples 5 and 6 illustrate the effect of the present modifier on linear low density polyethylene andExamples 7 9 illustrate its effect on polypropylene.No modifier was added to the linear low density polyethylene in Example 5, while 0.2 weight percent of a polyvinyloctadecyl ether with a number average molecular weight of about 4000 was added in Example 6. In Example 7, no modifier was added to the polypropylene. In Examples 8 and 9, 0.2 and 0.5, weight percent, respectively, of the same ether was added to the polypropylene. The test results obtained are listed in Table II, below. TABLE II Resist Trans ImpactExample Extruder Tear verse Resist No. Resins Amperage Machine g mm MPa 5 Lin.Low P.E. 4.0 190 950 12.16 6 Lin.Low P.E. 3.6 165 1020 17.65 7 Polyprop. 4.6 3 225 2.24 8 Polyprop. 4.2 4 420 2.Q7 9 Polyprop. 4.2 7 525 1.90 Comparative Example Like Table I, the data shown in Table II illustrates the benefit of adding a polyvinyloctadecyl ether to polyolefin resins. While not shown, the yield and tensile strength , and the percent elongation remained about the same for Examples 5 9. The impact resistance for the linear low density polyethylene and the tear resistance for the polypropylene were significantly improved. Moreover , there was a 10 to 15 percent reduction in the extrusion power requirement with the addition of the modifier as illustrated by the ExtruderAmperage. The surfaces of the blown films were considerably smoother with the added modifier.